[META]
id:       BGU 3.1002
label:    BGU 3.1002
name:     Contract — Hermopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     55 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Hermopolis (55 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus — Kopie einer Übersetzung aus dem Demotischen
tm:       4523
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/bgu;3;1002
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    ἀντίγραφον συνγραφῆς πράσεως Αἰγυπτίας μεθηρμηνευμένης κατὰ τὸ δυνατόν. ἔτους κϛ Παῦνι κβ βασιλέως πρεσβυτέρου Πτολεμα[ί]ου
r.2    νέου Διονύσου Φιλοπ[άτορ]ος Φιλαδέλφου ἐφʼ ἱερέως Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ κοινῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείᾳ. λέγει γυνὴ τῶν ἀφʼ Ἑρμουπόλεως
r.3    Ταθῶτις ἡ καὶ Ἑρμιόνη Ἀντιφίλου Ἕλληνος τῶν κατοίκων ἱππάρχου ἐπʼ ἀνδρῶν Μηδόκωι Εὐδήμου Ἀρκάδι. πέπεικάς με τῆι τιμῆι τοῦ ὑπάρχοντό[ς]
r.4    μου ἡμίσους μέρους αὐλῆς ἐν τοῖς ἀπὸ βορρᾶ μέρεσι οἰκίας Ἀντιφίλου ἀδελφοῦ μου ὧν ἔχω ἐν ἀμφισβητήσει καὶ τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι ἥμισυ μέρος
r.5    ἑτέρας αὐλῆς ἐν τοῖς ἀπὸ λιβὸς μέρεσι τῆς προγεγραμμένης οἰκίας ἐπί τινι μέρει ἐν τοῖς ἀπὸ βορρᾶ καὶ λιβὸς ἀπὸ γωνίας θυρίδος Αἰλούρου τῆς
r.6    πρώτης στέγης τῆς οἰκίας Ἀντιφίλου τοῦ προγεγραμμένου μου ἀδελφοῦ ἕως εἰς βορρᾶ[ν] μέχρι ῥύμης τῆς ἀπὸ βορρᾶ τῶν ὄντων ἐν τοῖς ἀπὸ λιβὸς ἐντὸς
r.7    φρουρίου μεγάλου Ἑρμαίου νυνὶ φρουρίου βασιλέως· γείτονες δὲ τῆς αὐλῆς ἧς πέπρακά σοι τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι ἥμισυ μέρος τιμῆς καθὼς πρόκειται ἐν τοῖς
r.8    ἀπὸ βορρᾶ μέρεσι οἰκίας Ἀντιφίλου τοῦ προγεγραμμένου μου ἀδελφοῦ· νότου ἡ αὐτὴ οἰκία ὧν ἔχω ἐν ἀμφισβητήσει βορρᾶ καὶ ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη διʼ ἧς εἴσοδος καὶ
r.9    ἔξοδος λιβὸς ἑτέρα αὐλὴ ἧς πέπρακά σοι τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι ἕτερον ἥμισυ μέρος τιμῆς καθὼς πρόκειται· γείτονες δὲ τῆς ἑτέρας αὐλῆς ἧς πέπρακά
r.10   σοι τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι ἥμισυ μέρος τιμῆς καθὼς πρόκειται· νότου αὐλὴ Ἀντιφίλου τοῦ [π]ρογεγραμμένου μου ἀδελφοῦ ἀπὸ γωνίας θυρίδος Αἰλούρου
r.11   τοῦ καὶ προγεγραμμένου μέχρι γωνίας τῆς ἀπὸ νότου καὶ λιβὸς τῆς προγεγραμμένης οἰκίας βορρᾶ ῥύμη διʼ ἧς εἴσοδος καὶ ἔξοδος ἀπηλιώτου
r.12   ἑτέρα αὐλὴ ἧς πέπρακά σοι τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι ἥμισυ μέρος τιμῆς καθὼς πρόκειται λιβὸς οἰκίαι σου καὶ οἰκία Καμίωνος. σὰ δέ ἐστιν πάντα τὰ προγεγραμμένα, δέδωκά σοι αὐτὰ τιμῆς ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας καὶ βεβαιώσω σοι αὐτὰ ἀπὸ παντὸς ἁπλῶς. ἐὰν δέ τίς σοι ἐπέλθηι περὶ
r.13   αὐτῶν, ἐκστήσω αὐτὸν ἀπὸ σοῦ. σαὶ δέ εἰσιν πᾶσαι αἱ κατʼ αὐτῶν κείμεναι συνγραφαὶ καὶ ὠναὶ καὶ δίκαια καὶ βέβαια καὶ νῖκος. ἐὰν δέ τίς σοι
r.14   ὅρκος ἢ ἐπίδειξις ἐπιβληθῆι περὶ αὐτῶν, ἐγὼ αὐτὸς ἐπιτελέσω καὶ πάλιν βεβαιώσω σοι αὐτὰ [ἀπὸ π]αντὸς ἁπλῶς. ὑπάρχει δὲ καὶ ἡ πρὸς
r.15   ταύτην ἀποστασίου συνγραφὴ καὶ ἐπεγράφησαν ἐκ τοῦ ὀπίσω μάρτυρες δέκα ἕξ .

[TRANSLATION]
1     Copy of an Egyptian contract of sale, translated as far as possible. In the 26th year, Pauni 22, of King Ptolemy the elder,
2     the new Dionysos, Philopator Philadelphos, under the priest of Alexander and of the gods, in Alexandria. There speaks a woman of those from Hermoupolis,
3     Tathotis alias Hermione, daughter of Antiphilos, a Greek, of the katoikoi, hipparch over men, to Medokos, son of Eudemos, an Arcadian: you have persuaded me by the price of the (property) belonging
4     to me, the half part of a courtyard on the north sides of the house of Antiphilos my brother, which (things) I hold in dispute, and the half part belonging to me
5     of another courtyard on the west sides of the aforewritten house, in respect of a certain part on the north and west from the corner of the window of Ailouros of the
6     first story of the house of Antiphilos my aforewritten brother as far as the north up to the street on the north of those (parts) on the west, within
7     the great fort of Hermaion, now the king's fort. The neighbors of the courtyard of which I have sold you the half part belonging to me at a price, as is set forth, on the
8     north sides of the house of Antiphilos my aforewritten brother (are): on the south the same house, which (things) I hold in dispute; on the north and east the street through which (is) the entrance and
9     exit; on the west the other courtyard of which I have sold you the other half part belonging to me at a price, as is set forth; and the neighbors of the other courtyard of which I have sold
10    you the half part belonging to me at a price, as is set forth (are): on the south the courtyard of Antiphilos my aforewritten brother, from the corner of the window of Ailouros
11    the aforesaid up to the corner on the south and west of the aforewritten house; on the north the street through which (is) the entrance and exit; on the east
12    the other courtyard of which I have sold you the half part belonging to me at a price, as is set forth; on the west your houses and the house of Kamion. And all the aforewritten (things) are yours; I have given them to you at a price from the present day, and I will guarantee them to you against everyone simply. And if anyone comes against you concerning
13    them, I will remove him from you. And yours are all the contracts and deeds of purchase lying against them and the rights and securities and victory. And if any
14    oath or proof be imposed on you concerning them, I myself will perform (it), and again I will guarantee them to you [against] everyone simply. And there exists also the contract of cession
15    relating to this (one), and sixteen witnesses were inscribed on the back.
