[META]
id:       BGU 6.1266
label:    BGU 6.1266
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       2667a
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/bgu;6;1266
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου τοῦ Πτολεμαίου καὶ Ἀρσινόης θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων ἔτους τρίτου ἐφʼ ἱερέως Σατύρου τοῦ Εὐμένους Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν Σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ
r.2    θ[ε]ῶν Εὐ[ερ]γετῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης Εὐεργέτιδος Ἀρσινόης τῆς Σόλωνος κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου Σωστράτης τῆς Ἀντιγένους μηνὸς Ἀρτεμισίου ἐν Τάκονα
r.3    τοῦ Ὀξυρυγχίτου νομοῦ. ἐμίσθωσεν Πολιάνθης Νικάνδρου Μ[α]κεδὼντῆς
r.4    ἐπι[γ]ονῆς Θέωνι Ἀπολλωνίου Πέρσηι καὶ Μενεδήμωι Ἀμ[ύ]ντου Κυρηναίωι καὶ Σωστράτωι Θεοδότου Χαλκηδονίωι τοῖς τρισὶ τῆς ἐπι[γ]ονῆς
r.5    τὸν κλῆρον τὸν Λέοντος τοῦ Κάλλιος Κυρηναίου ὀρφανοῦ, ἐφʼ ὧι
r.6    μεθέξει αὐτοῖς Πολιάνθης τὸ πέμπτον μέρος τοῦ κλήρου Σώστρατος
r.7    δὲ δύο μέρη Θέων δὲ πέμπτον μέρος Μενέδημος δὲ πέμπτον
r.8    μέρος, συνεισφέροντες ἀλλήλοις τά τε σπέρματα καὶ τὴν κατεργασίαν τοῦ κλήρου ἑκάτερος κατὰ τὸ ἑαυτοῦ μέρος εἰς ἐνιαυτὸν
r.9    ἕνα σπόρον καὶ θερισμὸν ἕνα τὸν σπόρον τοῦ τρίτου ἔτους, ἐκφορίου τακτοῦ ὅλου τοῦ κλήρου ὀλυρῶν ἀρταβῶν ἑκατὸν εἴκοσι πέντε καὶ χόρτου λωτίνου ἀρ[ουρ]ῶν τριῶν . τὸ δʼ ἐκφόριον ἀπ[ο]δότωσαν
r.10   Θέων καὶ οἱ προγεγραμμένοι μέτοχοι τὸ καθʼ ἑαυτὸν μέρος Πολιάνθηι ἀκίνδυνον καὶ ἀνυπόλογον πάσης φθορᾶς πλὴν πολεμίων ἐν μηνὶ Αὐδναίωι τοῦ τρίτου ἔτους ὄλυραν καθαρὰν ἀπὸ πάντων
r.11   μέτρωι χόϊ δικαίωι καὶ καταστησάτωσαν εἰς Τάκονα
r.12   πρὸς Πολιάνθην τοῖς ἰδίοις ἀνηλώμασιν καὶ τὰς τρεῖς ἀρούρας τοῦ χόρτου δότωσαν Πολιάνθηι ἀπὸ μιᾶς κεφαλῆς ὅθεν ἂν
r.13   ἐγλέξηται Πολιάνθης καὶ ἐκ τούτων ἀρούρας δρα … αι καὶ
r.14   δῆσαι καὶ ἀνακομίσαι εἰς Τακόνα πρὸς Πολιάνθην
r.15   τοῖς [ἰ]δίοις ἀνηλώμασιν· ἐὰν δὲ μὴ ἀποδῶσι ἢ μὴ καταστήσωσιν καθʼ ὃ
r.16   γέγραπται, ἀποτισάτωσαν Πολιάνθηι τῶν μὲν ὀλυρῶν τῆς
r.17   ἀρτάβης ἑκάστης ἀργυρίου δρ[α]χμὰς εἴκοσι , τοῦ δὲ χόρτου τῆς
r.18   ἀρούρας ἑκάστης ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς τριάκοντα , τῶν δὲ καρπῶν κυριεύετω Πολιάνθης ἕως ἂν τὸ ἐκφόριον κομίσηται· ἐὰν δὲ ἐγπραχθῶσιν περὶ τοῦ κλήρου εἰς τὸ βασιλικὸν
r.19   ὑπολογείτωσαν Πολιάνθῃ εἰς τὰ ἐκφόρια. βεβαιούτω δὲ Πολιάνθης
r.20   Θέωνι καὶ τοῖς μετόχοις τὸν κλῆρον καὶ τοὺς καρποὺς τὸν
r.21   συγγεγραμμένον χρόνον καθότι μεμίσθωκεν αὐτοῖς, ἐὰν δὲ μὴ βεβαιοῖ ἢ ἐγβάλλωνται ἐκ τοῦ κλήρου ἢ ἐκ
r.22   τῶν καρπῶν ὑπό τινος οὖν πλὴν βασιλικοῦ κωλύματος,
r.23   ἀποτισάτω Πολιάνθης Θέωνι καὶ τοῖς μετόχοις
r.24   ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς τετρακισχιλίας . κυρία ἡ συγγραφή. μάρτυρες· Φιλωνάδης Κυρηναῖος δεκανικός, Ἀτίας Θρᾶιξ
r.25   ἰδιώτης, οἱ δύο τῶν Φίλωνος, Εὔβιος Χαλκιδεὺς διμοιρίτης, Λεύκιος
r.26   Θρᾶιξ λοχαγός, οἱ δύο τῶν Ἐνδίου, Ἀριστόμαχος Πτολεμαίου …
r.27   νος, Δημήτριος Δημητρίου Χαλκιδεύς, οἱ δύο τῆς ἐπιγονῆς.
r.28   Πολιάνθου Φιλωνάδου Εὐβίου Ἀριστομάχου
r.29   Θέωνος
r.30   Σωστράτου Ἀττίου Λευκίου Δημητρίου
r.31   Μενεδήμου
r.32   ἔτους γ μίσθωσις κλήρου Λέοντος
r.33   πρὸς Πολίανθην καὶ
r.34   Σώστρατον καὶ τοὺ[ς]
r.35   μετόχο[υς]

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Ptolemy son of Ptolemy and Arsinoe, the Father-loving gods, year three, when Satyros son of Eumenes was priest of Alexander and of the Savior Gods and the Sibling Gods and
2     the Benefactor Gods and the Father-loving Gods, when Berenike daughter of Solon was athlophoros of Berenike the Benefactress, when Sostrate daughter of Antigenes was kanephoros of Arsinoe Philadelphos, in the month Artemisios, in Takona
3     of the Oxyrhynchite nome. Polianthes son of Nikandros, a Macedonian of
4     the epigone, leased to Theon son of Apollonios, a Persian, and to Menedemos son of Amyntas, a Cyrenaean, and to Sostratos son of Theodotos, a Chalcedonian, the three of the epigone,
5     the allotment of Leon son of Kallis, an orphan, a Cyrenaean, on condition that
6     Polianthes shall share with them: Polianthes the fifth part of the allotment, Sostratos
7     two parts, Theon a fifth part, and Menedemos a fifth
8     part, contributing to one another both the seed and the cultivation of the allotment, each according to his own share, for one
9     year — one sowing and one harvest, the sowing of the third year — at a fixed rent for the whole allotment of one hundred and twenty-five artabas of olyra and three arouras of lotus-grass. And let them pay the rent,
10    Theon and the aforewritten partners, each his own share, to Polianthes, free of risk and not subject to deduction for any damage except enemy action, in the month Audnaios of the third year, olyra clean of everything,
11    by the just choes-measure, and let them deliver it to Takona
12    to Polianthes at their own expense; and let them give Polianthes the three arouras of grass from a single head (?), from wherever
13    Polianthes may choose, and from these arouras to cut (?) … and
14    to bind and to carry up to Takona to Polianthes
15    at their own expense; and if they do not pay or do not deliver as
16    has been written, let them forfeit to Polianthes, of the olyra,
17    for each artaba twenty drachmas of silver, and of the grass,
18    for each aroura thirty drachmas of silver; and let Polianthes have control of the crops until he recovers the rent; and if they be exacted, concerning the allotment, into the royal treasury,
19    let them reckon it to Polianthes against the rents. And let Polianthes guarantee
20    to Theon and the partners the allotment and the crops for the
21    written-down period, just as he has leased it to them; and if he does not guarantee it, or they are ejected from the allotment or from
22    the crops by anyone whomever except by royal hindrance,
23    let Polianthes forfeit to Theon and the partners
24    a penalty of four thousand drachmas of silver. The contract is valid. Witnesses: Philonades, a Cyrenaean, dekanikos; Atias, a Thracian,
25    private citizen, the two of Philon's (company); Eubios, a Chalcidian, holder of a double allotment; Leukios,
26    a Thracian, lochagos, the two of Endios's (company); Aristomachos son of Ptolemaios …
27    -nos; Demetrios son of Demetrios, a Chalcidian, the two of the epigone.
28    (seals/subscriptions of) Polianthes, Philonades, Eubios, Aristomachos,
29    Theon,
30    Sostratos, Atios, Leukios, Demetrios,
31    Menedemos.
32    Year 3. Lease of the allotment of Leon
33    with Polianthes and
34    Sostratos and the
35    partners.
