[META]
id:       BGU 17.2683
label:    BGU 17.2683
name:     Contract — Hermopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     513 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Hermopolis (513 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag (Pacht) — Land — Hypothek — Unterschriften — Zeugen — Notar
tm:       18122
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/bgu;17;2683
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    ὑπατείας Φλαυίων Κλημεντίνου καὶ Πρόβου τῶν ὑπερφυεστάτων Θὼθ κβ ἑβδόμης ἰν[δικτιῶνος].
r.2    Αὐρηλίᾳ Κύρᾳ τῇ καὶ Εὐστοργίᾳ τῇ εὐγενεστάτῃ θυγατρὶ τοῦ τῆς λογίας μνήμης Ἀβρααμίου
r.3    ἀπὸ τῆς Ἑρμουπολιτῶν παρα Αὐρηλίου Θεοδώρου Κολλούθου βραδέως ὑπογράφοντος γεωγροῦ
r.4    ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως. ὁμολογῶ ἑκουσίως καὶ αὐθαιρέτως μεμισθῶσθαι παρὰ τῆς
r.5    σῆς εὐγενείας ἐφʼ ὅσον χρόνον διακατέχεις τὴν γενομένην σοι ὑποθήκην παρὰ
r.6    Θεονίλλας Ἐπιφανίου ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως λογιζόμενον ἀπὸ καρπῶν τῆς εὐτυχοῦς
r.7    ὀγδόης ἰνδικτιῶνος καὶ αὐτῆς τὰς ὑποτεθείσας τῇ σῇ εὐγενείᾳ παρὰ τῆς προλεχθείσης
r.8    Θεονίλλας ἀρούρας ἐννέα ἥμισυ σὺν τετάρτῳ μέρει λάκκου μετὰ παντὸς δικαίου
r.9    διακειμένας ἐν περιώματι Τραισε ὑπὸ τὴν παραφυλακὴν τῶν ἀπὸ κώμης
r.10   Ἄρεως τοῦ Ἑρμουπολίτου νομοῦ εἰς σπορὰν καὶ κατάθεσιν καρπῶν ὧν ἐὰν αἱρῶμαι.
r.11   φόρου ἤτοι ἐτησίας ἐπικερδίας τῶν ἐπικερδείας αὐτῇ παρὰ τῆς σῆς κοσμιότητος νομισματίων
r.12   τριάκοντα ἑπτὰ ἀκολούθως τῷ ἐμφανισθέντι μοι ἐπιστάλματι χρυσοῦ κερατίων
r.13   ὀηδοήκοντα ἑνὸς ὅνπερ χρυσικὸν φόρον ἤτοι παραμυθείαν ἀποδώσω τῇ σῇ εὐγενείᾳ
r.14   ἐν μηνὶ Θὼθ ἑκάστου ἔτους ἀνυπερθέτως μέχρι ἐπιλύσεως τῆς αὐτῆς
r.15   ὑποθήκης. τὸ γράμμα τῆς μισθώσεως κύριον καὶ βέβαιον καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα.
r.16   Αὐρήλιος Θεόδωρος Κολλούθου ὁ προκείμενος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται. Γερόντιος
r.17   Πέτρου διάκονος ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας παρὰ τοῦ θεμένου.
r.18   Αὐρήλιος Ἰωάννης Ἑρμοῦ ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας παρὰ τοῦ θεμένου.
r.19   Αὐρήλιος Νεώτερος Φοιβάμμωνος ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας παρὰ τοῦ θεμένου.
r.20   διʼ ἐμοῦ Πινουτίωνος ἐγράφη … Θὼθ κβ ἰνδικτιῶνος ζ.
r.21   μίσθωσις Θεοδώρου Κολλο[ύθου] ἀπὸ Ἑρμουπόλεως

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the consulship of the Flavii Clementinus and Probus the most eminent, Thoth 22, of the seventh in[diction].
2     To Aurelia Kyra also called Eustorgia, the most noble daughter of the one of learned memory Abraamios
3     from the (city) of the Hermopolites, from Aurelius Theodoros son of Kollouthos, slow at subscribing, farmer
4     from the same city. I acknowledge willingly and of my own choice that I have leased from
5     your nobility, for as long a time as you retain possession of the security given to you by
6     Theonilla daughter of Epiphanios from the same city, reckoned from the crops of the fortunate
7     eighth indiction itself, the arouras mortgaged to your nobility by the aforesaid
8     Theonilla, nine and a half together with a fourth part of a cistern, with every right,
9     situated in the district of Traise under the guard of those from the village
10    of Ares of the Hermopolite nome, for sowing and planting of crops of whatever I may choose.
11    The rent, that is the annual profit, of the profits (due) to her from your orderliness, of solidi
12    thirty-seven according to the order made known to me, of gold, of carats
13    eighty-one; which gold rent, that is compensation, I shall pay to your nobility
14    in the month Thoth of each year without delay until the redemption of the same
15    security. The deed of the lease (is) valid and secure, and on being asked the formal question I gave my assent.
16    Aurelius Theodoros son of Kollouthos, the aforesaid, have leased as is set forth. Gerontios
17    son of Petros, deacon, from the city of Hermes, I bear witness to the lease, having heard from the one who made it.
18    Aurelius Ioannes son of Hermes, from the city of Hermes, I bear witness to the lease, having heard from the one who made it.
19    Aurelius Neoteros son of Phoibammon, from the city of Hermes, I bear witness to the lease, having heard from the one who made it.
20    Through me, Pinoution, it was written … Thoth 22, of the 7th indiction.
21    Lease of Theodoros son of Kollo[uthos] from Hermopolis
