[META]
id:       BGU 2.417
label:    BGU 2.417
name:     Letter — unbekannt
genre:    letters
date:     101 CE – 300 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from unbekannt (101 CE – 300 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Chairemon an seinen Sohn Dioskoros — ein Haufen Aufträge (Erledigungen) — sehr viele Imperative
tm:       28136
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/bgu;2;417
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Χαιρήμων Διοσκόρῳ τῷ υἱῶι χαίρειν.
r.2    περὶ ὧν ἔγραψας μελήσει μοι καὶ ἐγὼ δὲ σὲ ἐρωτῶ πάντα τὰ μετέωρα ἀπαλλάξαι καὶ μὴ πάλιν σεαυτῷ μετέωρα καταλείπε[ι]ν αἰσθόμενον
r.3    τὴν τοῦ καιροῦ πικρίαν· ἀπάλλαξον οὖν σεαυτὸν ἀπὸ παντὸς μετεώρου, ἵνα ἤδη ποτὲ
r.4    ἀμέριμνος γένῃ καὶ τὰ ἐμὰ μετεωρίδια ἤδη ποτὲ τύχην σχῆι περὶ τῶν γλυκειδίων μελησάτω σοι αἰσθομένῳ, ὅτι τρυγίᾳ χρῶμαι
r.5    ὅρα οὖν, μὴ ἀμελήσῃς πολλάκις ὑπʼ ἐμοῦ περὶ
r.6    τ[ο]ύτου παρακληθ[ε]ὶς καὶ εἰδὼς τὴν ἀνάγκην,
r.7    καὶ Διονυσίῳ σύντυχε περὶ τοῦ κοφίνου τῆς
r.8    σταφυλῆς καὶ πέρας λαβέτω ὑποδείξας
r.9    αὐτῷ π[ε]ρὶ ἐνοικίου κοφίνων καὶ τιμῆς σαργανῶν καὶ περὶ Ἡρακλᾶτος μελησάτω σοι,
r.10   ὁμοίως δὲ καὶ περὶ τῶν τοῦ Πτολλάρου αἰσθομένωι, ὅτι καὶ σοὶ τοῦτο ἀνήκει καὶ συμφέρει Σισοίτι καὶ Πετσίρι ἐνετειλάμην· παρακληθεὶς δὲ σύντυχε Γεμεινᾶτι καὶ ἐπίγνωθι
r.11   περὶ τοῦ ἡμιαρουρίου Σουηροῦτος, ἵνα παραγράφῃς καὶ τ[ο]ῦτο οὖν μοι παράσχου, ἵνα εἰδῶ, ὅτι
r.12   με φιλεῖς π[ε]ρὶ τῶν ὀξιδίων περισσὸν ποιήσω
r.13   ἔτι σοι περὶ τούτου ἐντελλόμενος · ταξάσθω
r.14   σοι ὁ Ἡρακλᾶς ἡμέραν καὶ παρὰ Ἰσιδώρου γνῶθι
r.15   [π]ερ[ὶ] τῶν ἄλλων οἶδα γὰρ ὅτι, ἐὰν θέλῃς, πάντα
r.16   περαιωθήσεται· περὶ πάντων οὖν μελησάτω σοι,
r.17   πολλάκις δέ σοι γράψω περὶ τῶν αὐτῶν, ἵνα μὴ
r.18   ἀμελήσῃς· τάχιον δὲ καὶ σὺ παραγενοῦ, ἐπεὶ τὸ
r.19   τῶν ταυρικῶν κατεπείγει. τὰ παιδία σου
r.20   ἔρρωται· ἀσπάζου Φαβοῦλλον τὸν ἀδελφόν σου.
r.21   ἔρρωσό μοι, γλυκύτατε, καὶ τὰ ὀξίδιά
r.22   μοι κόμισον.
r.23   Διοσκόρωι τῶι υἱῶι.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Chairemon to Dioskoros his son, greeting.
2     Concerning the things about which you wrote, I will take care; and I in turn ask you to clear up all the outstanding matters and not again to leave outstanding matters for yourself, perceiving
3     the bitterness of the times. Free yourself, then, from every outstanding matter, so that at some point already
4     you may become free of care, and so that my little outstanding affairs too may at last reach a settlement. Concerning the sweet little wines let it be your care, perceiving that I am using the dregs.
5     See then that you do not neglect it, having often been
6     urged by me about this and knowing the necessity,
7     and meet with Dionysios about the basket of
8     grapes, and let it be brought to a conclusion, showing
9     him about the rent of the baskets and the price of the wicker-crates; and concerning Heraklas let it be your care,
10    and likewise concerning the affairs of Ptollaros, perceiving that this concerns and benefits you too. I have given instructions to Sisois and Petsiris; and being urged, meet with Gemeinas and find out
11    about the half-aroura of Soueros, so that you may register (it); and provide this too for me, so that I may know that
12    you love me. Concerning the little vinegar jars I will take extra trouble
13    in further instructing you about this. Let
14    Heraklas appoint you a day, and from Isidoros learn
15    about the rest; for I know that, if you wish, everything
16    will be carried through. Concerning everything, then, let it be your care,
17    and often I will write to you about the same things, so that you do not
18    neglect (them); and come yourself more quickly, since the matter
19    of the cattle is pressing. Your children
20    are well; greet Phaboullos your brother.
21    Farewell to me, sweetest one, and the little vinegar jars
22    bring to me.
23    To Dioskoros the son.
