[META]
id:       BGU 4.1059
label:    BGU 4.1059
name:     Contract — Alexandria (Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     13 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Alexandria (Ägypten)
held:     Berlin
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Alexandria (Ägypten) (13 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Sklavin
tm:       18504
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/bgu;4;1059
lat:      31.201435
lon:      29.909773

[GREEK]
r.1    Πρωτάρχωι τῶι ἐπὶ τοῦ κριτηρίου
r.2    παρὰ Φιλωτέρας τῆς Ἀντιόχου ἀστῆς μετὰ κυρίου
r.3    καὶ παρὰ Λαοδίκης τῆς Λυσίου Μακέτας μετὰ κυρίου
r.4    τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ Μάρκου Σολπικίου Πρωτάρχου περὶ τῶν διεσταμένων
r.5    συνχωρεῖ ἡ Λαοδίκη ἀπεσχηκέναι παρὰ τῆς Φιλωτέρας διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου
r.6    τὸ ἑσταμέν[ον] κεφάλαιον, παρακεχωρηκέναι αὐτῇ τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῇ
r.7    δούλην ᾗ ὄνομα Μοῦσα ἐνγενῆ Αἰγύπτωι, ἧς τὰ ἔτη καὶ αἱ εἰκόνες ὑπόκεινται, ἥνπερ καὶ παρείληφεν ἡ Φιλωτέρα ἀσυκοφάντητον πλὴν ἱερᾶς νόσου
r.8    καὶ ἐπαφῆς ταξαμένη τὸ τέλος εἰς τὰ ἀνδράποδα. κρατεῖν καὶ κυριεύειν αὐτὴν
r.9    Φιλωτέραν τῆς δούλης καὶ ἄλλοις παραχωρεῖν καὶ ὡς ἐὰν θέλῃ ἐπιτελεῖν,
r.10   μηδεμίαν δὲ τῇ Λαοδίκῃ μήδʼ ἄλλῳ ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μηδενὶ καταλείπεσθαι
r.11   ἔφοδον ἐπὶ τὴν δούλην, βεβαιοῦν δὲ καὶ πᾶσαν μὲν εἰσελευσομένην
r.12   ἀποστήσειν παραχρῆμα τοῖς ἰδίοις δαπανήμασι, ἐὰν δέ τι τούτων παραβαίνῃ
r.13   χωρὶς τοῦ κύρια εἶναι τὰ συνκεχωρημένα ἔτι καὶ προσεκτίνειν αὐτὴν Φιλωτέρᾳ
r.14   κεφάλαιον σὺν ἡμιολίᾳ καὶ τὰ βλάβη καὶ δαπανήματα καὶ ἄλλας ἐπιτίμων
r.15   ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς πεντακοσίας καὶ τὸ ὡρισμένον πρόστιμον καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης,
r.16   δρασμὸς δὲ καὶ θάνατος τῆς δούλης ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν οὐκ ὄντων πρὸς τὴν
r.17   Λαοδίκην, ἀναδέδωκεν δὲ ἡ Φιλωτέρα ἣν εἶχεν εἰς ἑαυτὴν ἀσφάλειαν.
r.18   ἔστιν δὲ ἡ δούλη Μοῦσα ὡς ἐτῶν τριάκοντα πέντε μέση μελίχρως
r.19   μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύρριν οὐλὴ γενείωι ἐξ ἀριστερῶν
r.20   ἔτι δὲ αγα … ὑπὸ τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίῳ καὶ Μενάνδρου ὀφειλ ἀφʼ ἧς πεποιήμεθα αλ … αρ …
r.21   καταγειοχέναι τὸ ἐκφόριον ἐνταῦθα ἀκολούθως καὶ ᾧ
r.22   ἔχουσιν λόγῳ ολ ἀρούρας ριζ
r.23   καρπὸν δὲ διειλ … αμνε ὑφη εἰς τὸν ὑπ … λόγου ἀρτάβ ψξ
r.24   καὶ … τραπεζ … Χαρίνου καταγειοχέναι ἐνταῦθα τὸ ἐκφόριον ὑπὸ τοῦ Ἀμμωνίου καὶ Μενάνδρου
r.25   ἀρούρας ριζ
r.26   Δῖος Ἀριστέου Ἀλθαιεύς
r.27   Ἀπολλωνίωι …
r.28   λογ ἀρταβ ολ …

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Protarchos, the (official) in charge of the tribunal,
2     from Philotera daughter of Antiochos, of the city, with guardian
3     and from Laodike daughter of Lysias, a Macedonian, with as guardian
4     her brother Marcus Sulpicius Protarchos, concerning the matters at issue.
5     Laodike agrees that she has received from Philotera by hand from house
6     the established capital, (and) that she has ceded to her the slave-woman belonging to her,
7     whose name is Mousa, native-born to Egypt, whose years and features are set down below, whom indeed Philotera has received, free from malicious claim except for the sacred disease
8     and (its) liability to claim, having paid the tax on slaves. (Agreed) that Philotera shall hold and be mistress
9     Philotera of the slave-woman and cede (her) to others and dispose (of her) as she may wish,
10    and that to Laodike nor to anyone else on her behalf shall be left
11    any right of approach against the slave-woman; and (that Laodike) shall guarantee and shall remove every (claimant) coming against (her)
12    at once at her own expense; and if she transgress any of these (things),
13    apart from the agreed (matters) being valid, that she shall further pay to Philotera
14    the capital with a half (in addition) and the damages and expenses and as another penalty
15    five hundred silver drachmas and the appointed fine as if by judgment,
16    flight and death of the slave-woman from now not being chargeable against
17    Laodike; and Philotera has given back the security she held to her own (account).
18    And the slave-woman Mousa is about thirty-five years old, of middle (height), honey-colored,
19    long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on the chin on the left.
20    Further also … by Apollonios and Menandros, owing, from which we have made …
21    that the rent has been brought down here accordingly and by which (account)
22    they have, on account, 117 arouras, …
23    and the crop divided … brought up to the account … 760 artabas
24    and … bank … of Charinos, that the rent has been brought down here by Ammonios and Menandros,
25    117 arouras, …
26    Dios son of Aristeus, Althaieus
27    To Apollonios …
28    account, artabas … …
