[META]
id:       C.PAP.GR 1.11
label:    C.PAP.GR 1.11
name:     Contract — Alexandria
genre:    contracts
date:     5 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Alexandria
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Alexandria (5 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Beendigung der Beschäftigung einer Amme ohne bestehenden Vertrag — Grund: ihr ist die Milch ausgegangen
tm:       18551
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/c.pap.gr;1;11
lat:      31.201435
lon:      29.909773

[GREEK]
r.1    κόλλημα
r.2    Πρωτάρχωι
r.3    παρὰ Ἁρποχρατίωνος τοῦ Καίσαρος καὶ παρὰ Ἀπολλωνίας τῆς
r.4    Νανῶτος μετὰ κυρίου καὶ [ἐ]νγύου τοῦ τοῦ ἀνδρὸς Χαιρήμονος τοῦ
r.5    Πετήσιος. καὶ αὐτοῦ Χαιρήμονος ἐπεὶ τυγχάνει ὁ Ἁρποχρατίων ἐγδεδομένος τῆι
r.6    [Ἀπολλωνίαι δουλικὸν αὑτοῦ παιδίον ἀναίρετον ὑποτίτθιον]
r.7    … , ὥστε τροφευθῆναι
r.8    ὑπʼ αὐτῆς Ἀπολλωνίας τῷ ἰδίῳ αὐτῆς γάλακτι , μηδέπω δὲ
r.9    τῆς περὶ τῆς τροφείας δουλικοῦ παιδίου ᾧ ὄνομα Ἀγαλμάτιον ἀσφαλείας γεγονυίας συμβέβηκεν τὸ τῆς Ἀπολλωνίας γάλα διεφθάρθαι, συνχωροῦμεν
r.10   πρὸς ἑαυτοὺς ἐπὶ τοῖσδε· ἡ μὲν Ἀπολλωνία πεπληρῶσθαι ὑπὸ τοῦ
r.11   Ἁρποχρατίωνος διά τε χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ διὰ τραπέζης κατὰ μέρος τὰ
r.12   τῶν ὀκτὼ μηνῶν τροφεῖα καὶ μηδὲν ἐνκαλεῖν τῶι
r.13   Ἁρποχρατίωνι περὶ τούτων κατὰ μηδένα τρόπον, …
r.14   , ὁ δὲ
r.15   Ἁρποχρατίων καὶ αὐτὸς παρειληφέναι παρὰ τῆς Ἀπολλωνίας τὸ
r.16   δηλούμενον αὐτοῦ δουλικὸν παιδίον Ἀγαλμάτιον καὶ μηδὲν ἐνκαλεῖν … μήτε τῇ Ἀπολλωνία μήτε τῷ
r.17   Χαιρήμονι ὑπὲρ τῶν κατὰ τὴν τροφείαν [πάντ]ων ἢ, χωρὶς τοῦ κύρια εἶναι [τὰ συνκεχ]ωρημένα, συνέχεσθαι
r.18   αὐτὸν παραβαίνοντα τοῖς τε βλάβεσι καὶ τῷ [ὡρισμένῳ προστίμ]ωι τὴν δὲ Ἀπολλωνίαν καὶ τὸν Χαιρήμονα ἐκτίνειν
r.19   τ
r.20   ἃ εἴληφεν ἡ Ἀπολλωνία τροφεῖα σὺν [ἡμιολίᾳ]ἐπιτίμου καὶ ἄλλας ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς
r.21   τριακοσίας καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης
r.22   μηδὲ περὶ ἄλλου μηδενὸς ἁπλῶς τῶν ἕως τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας κατὰ μηδένα
r.23   τρόπον
r.24   ἔτους κϛ Καίσαρος [Ἁ]θὺρ κε

[TRANSLATION]
1     A roll (kollema).
2     To Protarchos.
3     From Harpochration son of Caesar, and from Apollonia daughter of
4     Nanos, with her guardian and surety, her husband Chairemon son of
5     Petesis. And from Chairemon himself, since it happens that Harpochration has given out to
6     [Apollonia his own slave child, a foundling, an infant at the breast]
7     … , so as to be nursed
8     by Apollonia herself with her own milk; but since not yet
9     had the security concerning the nursing of the slave child whose name is Agalmation been made, it has come about that Apollonia's milk was spoiled, and we agree
10    among ourselves on these terms: that Apollonia, on the one hand, has been paid by
11    Harpochration both hand to hand out of his house and through the bank, in installments, the
12    nursing-wages of the eight months, and that she makes no claim against
13    Harpochration concerning these things in any way, …
14    , and that Harpochration on the other hand
15    has himself received back from Apollonia the
16    aforesaid slave child of his, Agalmation, and that he makes no claim … either against Apollonia or against
17    Chairemon concerning all the matters of the nursing; or else, apart from the agreed terms being valid, the one who transgresses shall be liable
18    to the damages and to the [fixed penalty], and Apollonia and Chairemon shall pay
19    …
20    the nursing-wages which Apollonia received, with [half as much again] as penalty, and another three hundred drachmas of silver,
21    as if by legal judgment;
22    nor concerning any other single matter whatever, of those up to the present day, in any
23    way.
24    Year 26 of Caesar, Hathyr 25.
