[META]
id:       CHREST.WILCK 281
label:    CHREST.WILCK 281
name:     Documentary papyrus — Thebais
genre:    documents
date:     368 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Thebais
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Thebais (368 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Dossier — amtliche Aufträge — Lieferung — Öl — Getreide — Rückzahlung überzahlter Steuern — gerichtliche Angelegenheiten
tm:       22374
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/chrest.wilck;;281
lat:      26.25
lon:      32.75

[GREEK]
r.1    Φλάουιος Ἡράκλειος ὁ λαμπρότατος ἡγεμὼν Ἀσκληπιάδῃ καὶ Φιβίωνι ὀφφικιαλίοις
r.2    ἀπαιτηταῖς ἐλαίου ἐν Ὀάσει χαίρειν. τὸ ἐκ προφάσεως τῶν γενναιοτάτων στρατιωτῶν δηληγατευθὲν μέτρον ἐλαίου ἀπὸ τῆς Ὀάσεως, ἐξαιρέτως δὲ ἀπὸ τῆς Συήνης χρεωστούμενον ἐν χιλίοις καὶ ἐννακοσίοις ξέσταις ἀπαντήσαντες ἀγάγετε μεθʼ ἑαυτῶν
r.3    πολλῆς ἐπείξεως γενομένης ἕνεκεν τῆς χρείας ταύτης, γιγνώσκοντες ὡς εἰ μὴ εἴσω τῆς
r.4    πρὸ μιᾶς καλανδῶν Σεπτεμβρίων ἐπιφερόμενοι ἀπαντήσητε μετὰ τῶν ἐπιμελητῶν,
r.5    ὡς τρεῖς οὐγκίας χρυσίου ταῖς ταμιακαῖς ψήφοις δοῦναι προσταχθήσεσθε, Ἰσιδώρ[ου]
r.6    ὀφφικιαλίου διὰ τὴν πρόφασιν ταύτην καὶ τὸ κατεπεῖγον τῆς χρείας ἐκ τάξεως ἀποσταλέντος.
r.7    τίνα δὲ ἐπήνεγκαν οἱ πραιπόσιτοι, ἐκ τῶν ὑποτεταγμένων εἴσεσθε.
r.8    Φλάουιος Ἡράκλειος ὁ λαμπρότα[τ]ος ἡγεμὼν ἐξάκτορι χαίρει[ν].
r.9    τὰ λόγῳ ναύλων θαλασσίων δηληγατευθέντα παρὰ τῶν κυρίων μου τῶν λαμπροτάτων ἐπάρχων, τῶν θαυμασιωτάτων ἐπάρχων ἐπί τε τῆς ια καὶ ἐπὶ τῆς ιβ ἰνδικτίονος προσήκει τέως προχωρῆσαι, ἤδη τοῦ καιροῦ κατεπείγοντος καὶ τῶν ἀργυρίων ὀφλόντων
r.10   συνδραμεῖν, ὅπ[ως] … κατὰ τὴ[ν ] … ὥραν ἐξελθεῖν … υ … θῇ. ἐντυχόντες τοίνυν
r.11   τῇ ὑποκειμένῃ διδασκαλίᾳ [τ]ῆς τάξεως καὶ μαθόντες τὸ αἱροῦν ὑμῖν παραχρῆμα
r.12   τὴν ἀπόδοσιν τούτου ποιήσασθε, Ἰσιδώρου ὀφφικιαλίου διὰ τὴν πρόφασιν ταύτην ἀποσταλέντος.
r.13   συνάγεται λόγου ναύλου θαλασσίων πλοίων ιβ ἰνδικτίονος ἀπροκρίτως ἄχρις τῆς ἀποστελλομένης
r.14   δηληγατίονος κατὰ τὸν τύπον τ[ῆ]ς ια ἰνδικτίονος δηναρίων μυριάδας θ σμβ ·
r.15   Ἴβεως δηναρίων μυριάδας γ χξα ,
r.16   Μώθεως δηναρίων μυριάδας δ Δχοα ,
r.17   Τριμίθεως δηναρίων μυριάδας γ Αϡι .
r.18   τὸν ἀπὸ τῶν πολιτικῶν χρεωστηθέντα κανόνα ἀπὸ δ ἰνδικτίονος μέχρις δωδεκάτης
r.19   προσήκει σῶον ἀποθῆναι τοῖς ταμιακοῖς λόγοις. δεξάμενος τοίνυν τὸ πρόσταγ[μα]
r.20   τῆς ἐμ[ῆς] καθοσιώσεως ἐντυχών τε τῇ διδασκαλίᾳ τῇ ὑποκειμένῃ τῆς τάξεως εὐθέως
r.21   μήνυσον τῷ δικαστηρίῳ ἐν ἀποθέτῳ τυγχάνειν τὸ μέτρον τοῦτο, γιγνώσκων ὡς εἴ τις βραχεῖα γένηται ὑπέρθεσις, ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων τῶν σῶν ἀποπληρώσεις. διὰ γὰρ τὴν
r.22   πρόφασιν ταύτην καὶ Ἰσίδωρος ἐκ τάξεως ὀφφικιάλιος ἀπέσταλται. τοὺς δέ γε ὑποδέκτας τοὺς ἐκ πολλοῦ
r.23   ὑποδεξαμένους ἢ κατάδηλον ποίησον ἔχειν παρʼ αὑτοῖς τὸ μέτρον ἢ εἰς τὴν τάξιν ἀπόστειλον, ἐφʼ ὧτε πανταχόθεν τὸ ἀσφαλὲς … επε …
r.24   Οὐαλερίῳ χαμαιδικαστῇ Ὀάσεως. ἦλθεν εἰς γνῶσιν τῆς ἐμῆς καθοσιώσεως,
r.25   ὅτι δὴ πραγματείαν ἡγησάμενοι τοῦ πραγματευτικοῦ χρυσαργύρου
r.26   τὴν πρόφασιν οἱ δοθέντες ἐπικριταὶ διπλασίονα σταθμὸν εἰσ[ε]πράξαντο παρά τε τῶν
r.27   ἀπὸ τῆς πόλεως καὶ τῆς ἀγροικίας. ἐπεὶ τοίνυν προσήκει τὴν γνῶσιν τῆς ἀπαιτήσεως κατ[άδ]ηλ[ον]
r.28   γενέσθαι τῷ δικαστηρίῳ, φρόντισον δεξάμενος τὸ πρόσταγμα τῆς ἐμῆς καθοσιώσεως
r.29   ερ … εραν ποιήσασθαι καὶ παραστῆσαι τὴν τῶν εἰσπραχθέντων αἰκίαν
r.30   πρὸ τῆς ἀφίξεως τοῦ δικαστηρίου ἢ γίγνωσκε ὡς εἴ τι παραλελοιπὼς ὀφθείης
r.31   τοῦτό τε κατάδηλον καὶ ἀπʼ αὐτῶν τῶν πραγμάτων καὶ τῶν ἐντυγχανόντων γένοιτ[ο],
r.32   ὡς λίτραν χρυσίου ταῖς ταμιακαῖς ψήφοις δοῦναι προσταχθήσει.
r.33   Οὐαλερίῳ χαμαιδικαστῇ Ὀάσεως.
r.34   τὴν συνήθη πρόνοιαν οἱ κύριοί μου καὶ θαυμασιώτατοι ἔπαρχοι τῶν συντελεσ[μά]των … ι … ων καὶ πᾶσαν ἐπήρειαν περὶ τὰς γιγνο[μ]ένας δημοσίας καταβολὰς ἀποκινηθῆναι τῶν συντελ[ούν]των προσέταξαν, καὶ πρόκειται μὲν ἐν τῷ δημοσίῳ τὸ περὶ τούτου
r.35   ἀποσταλ[ὲ]ν τῆς τοσαύτης ἐξουσίας πρόσταγμα. σοὶ δὲ
r.36   παρεγγυᾶ τὸ δικαστήριον ἐν ξυλίνοις δέλτοις ἐνχαράξαντι τοῦτο τῷ δημοσίῳ προθεῖναι ἐπί τε πόλεως
r.37   καὶ τῶν κωμῶν τῆς ἐνορίας τῆς ὑμετέρας, ἐκείνου
r.38   καταδήλου ὄντος ὡς εἰ μὴ ὀφθείης τοῦτο πεποιηκὼς
r.39   [π]ρὸ [τ]ῆς ἀφίξεως τοῦ [δι]καστηρί[ου], ὡς λίτραν χρυσίου
r.40   τοῖς ταμιακοῖς λόγοις δοῦναι [πρ]οσταχθήσει. διὰ γὰρ ταύτην
r.41   τὴν πρόφασιν Ἰσίδωρος ὀφφικιάλιος ἐκ τάξεως ἀπέσταλται.
r.42   Φλάουιος Ἄριος ἑκατόνταρχος ἐξάκτορι Ὀάσεως
r.43   Ψάις ἐντυχὼν τῷ δικαστηρίῳ ᾐτιάσατο
r.44   Παχοῦμιν τινα ἀπὸ τῆς ὑμετέρας χώρας
r.45   συνπεῖσαι ἑαυτοῦ διαρπαγῆς ποιήσαντα
r.46   διαφόρων αὑτοῦ πραγμάτων κεχρῆσ[θα]ι ?,
r.47   ᾐτιάσατο δὲ καὶ Ἡλιόδωρον ἐπὶ ἀγνωμοσύνῃ
r.48   μέτρου ἐλαίου. κεινηθεὶς τῇ ἐξου[σ]ίᾳ τοῦ κυρίου μο[υ]
r.49   τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαουίου Ἡρακλείου πρ … ι … ι … διὰ τῆς τάξεως καὶ αὐτὸν [τὸν] Παχῦμιν καὶ
r.50   Ἡλιόδωρον προσεπαχθῆναι Κλεοβούλ[ῳ ] … επ … γνωσθῆναι καὶ τὴν διαίτησιν
r.51   διʼ αὐτοῦ γίνεσθαι. ἐντυχὼν …
r.52   … δι[ὰ] γ[ὰ]ρ ταύτην τὴν πρόφασιν καὶ Ἰσίδωρος
r.53   ὀφικιάλι[ο]ς ἐκ τάξεως … ἀπέσταλτ[αι] … αι τοῖς προστεταγμένοις

[TRANSLATION]
1     Flavius Heraclius the most illustrious praeses, to Asklepiades and Phibion, officials,
2     collectors of oil in the Oasis, greeting. The measure of oil delegated on account of the most noble soldiers from the Oasis, and especially that owed from Syene, in one thousand nine hundred xestai — come and bring it with you,
3     since much urgency has arisen on account of this need, knowing that if you do not, within the
4     day before the Kalends of September, arrive bringing it together with the supervisors,
5     you will be ordered to give three ounces of gold to the treasury accounts, Isidoros
6     the official having been sent out from the office on account of this matter and the pressing urgency of the need.
7     What the praepositi have submitted, you shall learn from what is appended below.
8     Flavius Heraclius the most illustrious praeses, to the exactor, greeting.
9     The sums delegated for sea freight by my lords the most illustrious prefects, the most admirable prefects, both for the 11th and for the 12th indiction, it is fitting should now proceed, the time already pressing and the moneys owed
10    being collected, so that … at the proper hour it may go out … may be paid. Having therefore consulted
11    the instruction of the office set out below, and learning what falls to you, at once
12    make the payment of this, Isidoros the official having been sent out on account of this matter.
13    There is gathered, on the account of the freight of sea-going ships of the 12th indiction, without prejudice, until the delegation that is being dispatched,
14    in accordance with the rate of the 11th indiction, denarii myriads 9,242;
15    of Ibis, denarii myriads 3,661;
16    of Mothis, denarii myriads 4,4671;
17    of Trimithis, denarii myriads 3,1910.
18    The canon owed by the civic accounts from the 4th indiction up to the twelfth
19    it is fitting should be deposited intact to the treasury accounts. Therefore, on receiving the order
20    of my devotedness, and having consulted the instruction of the office set out below, at once
21    notify the court that this measure is in deposit, knowing that if any small deficit occur, you shall make it up from your own property. For on account of this
22    matter Isidoros too, an official, has been sent out from the office. And those receivers who have long since
23    received it — either make it manifest that they hold the measure with themselves, or send them to the office, so that on every side security … may be …
24    To Valerius, magistrate (chamaidikastes) of the Oasis. It has come to the knowledge of my devotedness,
25    that, having undertaken the business of the commercial chrysargyron (gold-and-silver tax),
26    on this pretext the appointed examiners exacted a double weight both from those
27    of the city and of the countryside. Since therefore it is fitting that knowledge of the exaction be made manifest
28    to the court, take care, on receiving the order of my devotedness,
29    to … make and present the outrage of what was exacted
30    before the arrival of the court; or else know that if you be found to have omitted anything,
31    and this become manifest from the very facts and from those who appear,
32    you will be ordered to give a pound of gold to the treasury accounts.
33    To Valerius, magistrate of the Oasis.
34    My lords and most admirable prefects have ordered the customary care … of the contributions … and that every harassment concerning the public payments being made be removed from the contributors, and there is posted indeed in the public office the order concerning this,
35    dispatched, of so great authority. And to you
36    the court enjoins, having engraved this on wooden tablets, to set it up publicly both in the city
37    and in the villages of your district, that one being
38    manifest that, if you be found not to have done this
39    before the arrival of the court, you will be ordered to give a pound of gold
40    to the treasury accounts. For on account of this
41    matter Isidoros the official has been sent out from the office.
42    Flavius Arius, centurion, to the exactor of the Oasis.
43    Psais, appearing before the court, accused
44    a certain Pachoumis from your district
45    of having persuaded (others) and made plunder of him,
46    and of having made use of his various properties;
47    and he accused also Heliodoros of fraud
48    in the measure of oil. Moved by the authority of my lord
49    the most illustrious praeses Flavius Heraclius … through the office, both Pachoumis himself and
50    Heliodoros are to be brought before Kleoboulos … to be examined, and the arbitration
51    to be conducted through him. Appearing …
52    … for on account of this matter Isidoros too,
53    an official, from the office … has been sent out … in accordance with what has been ordered.
