[META]
id:       CHREST.MITT 361
label:    CHREST.MITT 361
name:     Contract — Elephantine
genre:    contracts
date:     355 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Elephantine
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Elephantine (355 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Freilassung — Sklaven
tm:       23522
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/chrest.mitt;;361
lat:      24.09
lon:      32.889

[GREEK]
r.1    [μετ]ὰ τὴν ὑπατεί[α]ν τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν Κωνσταντίου Αὐγούστου τὸ ζ καὶ Κωνσταντίου τοῦ ἐπιφανεστάτου Καίσαρος τὸ γ
r.2    Τῦβι ιζ τῆς ιγ ἰνδικτίονος, ἐν Ἐλεφαντίνη[ς] πόλει τῆς ἄνω Θηβαίδος.
r.3    Αὐρηλία Τηρουτήρου Πασμῆτος μητρὸς Τσενπαχνούμεως ἀπὸ Ἐλεφαντίνης πόλεως μετὰ συνεστῶτ[ο]ς
r.4    [τ]οῦ κυρίου αὐτῆς ἀνδρὸς Αὐρηλίου Δωροθέου Σερήνου ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως Αὐρηλίῳ Σαραπάμμωνι
r.5    μητρὸς Ταπαμῶνος καὶ Τκαλῆτι ἐκ μητρὸς Θαήσιος καὶ [τ]ῇ ταύτη[ς] θυγατρὶ Αὐρηλίᾳ Λουσίᾳ γενομένοι[ς]
r.6    μου δούλοι[ς] ὑπὲρ τοῦ ἐπιβάλλοντος μέρους χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ ἑκουσίως καὶ αὐθαιρέτως καὶ
r.7    ἀμετανοήτως ἀφικέναι ὑμᾶς ἐλευθέρους τοῦ ἐπιβάλλοντός μοι μέρους ὑπὸ Γῆν καὶ Οὐρανὸν κατʼ εὐσεβείαν
r.8    τ[ο]ῦ πανελεήμονος Θεοῦ ἐλθόντος εἰς ἐμὲ ἀπὸ κληρονομίας τῆς μητρός μου ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον
r.9    καὶ ἀνθʼ ὧν ἐνεδείξασθέ μοι κατὰ χρόνον εὐνοίας καὶ στοργῆς ἔτι τε καὶ ὑπηρεσίας· [τ]ρέπεσθαι οὖν ὑμᾶς
r.10   κατὰ τ[ὸ] προκείμενόν μου μέρος καθὼς προεῖπον καὶ νέμεσθαι εἰς οὓς ἐὰν βούλησθε τόπους ἀκωλύτως
r.11   καὶ ἀνεπιλήμπτως, εὐδοκεῖν γὰρ καὶ πείθεσθαι ἐμὲ τὴν ἐλευθεροῦσαν τοῖς ἐλευθερουμένοις εἰς
r.12   τήνδε [τ]ὴν ἐλευθέρωσιν ἥκειν τοῖς ἐλευθερουμένοις καθὼς προδεδήλωται καὶ τοῖς ἐξ αὐτῶν
r.13   ἐσομέν[ο]ις εἴτε ἐπὶ θηλείοις τέκνοις εἴτε ἐπὶ ἑτέροις ἐκγόνοις, μήτε μὴν οἷς ἐὰν κτήσησθε τρόπῳ
r.14   μη[δενὶ] παρευρέσει μηδεμιᾷ ἐντεῦθεν ἀκώλυτον ἔσται τῆς δουλείας, καὶ μὴ ἔξεσται δὲ μηδενὶ τῶν
r.15   ἐμῶν κληρονόμων ἁπαξαπλῶς ἀντιλέγειν μου ταύτῃ τῇ εὐσεβείᾳ περὶ μηδενὸς κατὰ μηδένα τρόπον
r.16   ἐκ μηδεμιᾶς ἀφορμῆς τῇ καθόλου διʼ ἣν καὶ αὐτοὶ τῷ χρόνῳ ἐνέδειξάν μοι εὔνοιαν καὶ φιλοστοργείαν,
r.17   κα[ὶ] αὐτὴ ἀμειβομένη τὰς ἀμοιβὰς ἑκοῦσα καὶ πεπεισμένη ἧκον εἰς τήνδε τὴν ἐλευθερίαν ἥνπερ
r.18   ἐθέμην κυρίαν καὶ βεβαίαν ἁπλῆν γραφεῖσαν πανταχοῦ ἐπιφερομένην ἐφʼ ὑπογραφῆς ἐμοῦ Δωροθέου τοῦ ἀνδρὸς αὐτῆς πρὸς αἰωνίαν ὑμῶν ἀσφάλειαν, καὶ ἐπερωτηθεῖσα ὡμολόγησα.
r.19   Αὐρηλία Τηρουτήρου Πασμῆτος ἡ προκειμένη ἐθέμην τὴν ἐλευθερίαν καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι τοῖς ἐνγεγραμμένοις
r.20   ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Δωρόθεος Σερήνου ὁ προγεγραμμένος ἀνὴρ αὐτῆς συνέστην τῇ γυναικί μου καὶ ἔγραψα
r.21   ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γράμματα μὴ εἰδυίης. Αὐρήλιος Τινισαεῖς Ἀμμωνᾶτος μαρτυρῶ. Αὐρήλιος Ἀμμώνιος
r.22   Σωκράτους μαρτυρῶ. Αὐρήλιος Φιλουσίας Ἀντωνίου μαρτυρῶ. Αὐρήλιος Κύριλλος Παησίου μαρτυρῶ.
r.23   Αὐρήλιος Τιμόθεος Ἀπολλωνίου ἀπὸ προεστώτων Ἐλεφαντίνης μαρτυρῶ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     [Aft]er the consulship of our lords Constantius Augustus for the 7th time and Constantius the most illustrious Caesar for the 3rd time,
2     Tybi 17 of the 13th indiction, in the city of Elephantine of the upper Thebaid.
3     Aurelia Teruterou daughter of Pasmes, her mother being Tsenpachnoumis, from the city of Elephantine, with the joint presence
4     [o]f her guardian, her husband Aurelius Dorotheos son of Serenos, from the same city, to Aurelius Sarapammon
5     son of (her mother) Tapamon, and to Tkales, of the mother Thaesis, and to her daughter Aurelia Lousia, who had become
6     my slaves, concerning the part falling (to me), greeting. I acknowledge willingly and of my own choice and
7     irrevocably to have set you free, in respect of the part falling to me, under Earth and Heaven, in piety
8     toward the all-merciful God, (the part) which came to me from the inheritance of my mother, from now for all time,
9     and in return for the goodwill and affection, and further also the service, which you showed me over time; (it being permitted) therefore that you turn
10    according to my aforesaid part, as I said before, and dwell in whatever places you wish, without hindrance
11    and unmolested; for I, the one freeing (you), consent and am persuaded that for the freed ones
12    this manumission holds good for the freed ones, as has been declared beforehand, and for those who shall be born from them
13    whether to female children or to other descendants, nor indeed to whomever you may acquire in any way,
14    by no pretext whatsoever shall it from henceforth be unhindered (i.e. subject) to slavery; and it shall not be permitted to any of
15    my heirs whatsoever to contradict this my act of piety concerning anything in any way
16    on any occasion at all, for which (goodwill) they too over time showed me goodwill and affection,
17    an[d] I myself, repaying the repayments willingly and being persuaded, came to this freedom, which
18    I established valid and secure, written in a single (copy), produced everywhere, on the subscription of me, Dorotheos her husband, for your eternal security; and on being formally questioned I gave my consent.
19    I, Aurelia Teruterou daughter of Pasmes, the aforesaid, established the freedom and consent to all that is written
20    as aforesaid. I, Aurelius Dorotheos son of Serenos, her aforewritten husband, was present with my wife and wrote
21    on her behalf, since she does not know letters. I, Aurelius Tinisaeis son of Ammonas, bear witness. I, Aurelius Ammonios
22    son of Sokrates, bear witness. I, Aurelius Philousias son of Antonios, bear witness. I, Aurelius Kyrillos son of Paesios, bear witness.
23    I, Aurelius Timotheos son of Apollonios, of the leading men of Elephantine, bear witness.
