[META]
id:       CHREST.WILCK 233
label:    CHREST.WILCK 233
name:     Documentary papyrus — Arsinoites
genre:    documents
date:     115 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Arsinoites (115 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Korrespondenz — Wechsel (Besitz) — Land
tm:       3666
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/chrest.wilck;;233
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Ὀννῶφρις ἄρουραι κδ, γίνονται κδ. ἔτους β Τῦβι κθ. ἐλάβομεν ἔτους β Τῦβι κθ.
r.2    Ὀννῶφρις Μεγχεῖ χαίρειν. τῆς παρʼ Ἀπολλωνίου τοῦ Ποσειδωνίου τοῦ βασιλικοῦ γραμματέως ἐπιστολῆς
r.3    περὶ ὧν σημαίνουσι παρακεχωρῆσθαι Διδυμάρχωι Ἀπολλωνίου ὑπὸ Πέτρωνος τοῦ Θέωνος περὶ Κερκεοσῖριν ἀρουρῶν κδ
r.4    τὸ ἀντίγραφον ὑπόκειται, ὅπως εἰδὼς κατακολουθῇς τοῖς ἐπεσταλμένοις.
r.5    ἔρρωσο. ἔτους β Τῦβι κη.
r.6    [Ἀπ]ολλώνιος Ποσειδωνίου Πολέμωνι χαίρειν. τῆς παρὰ Πτολεμαίου καὶ Ἑστιείου τῶν γενομένων πρὸς τῆι
r.7    συντάξει τῶν κατοίκων ἐπιστολῆς περὶ ὧν σημαίνουσι παρακεχωρῆσθαι Διδυμάρχωι ὑπὸ Πέτρωνος τοῦ
r.8    Θέωνος περὶ Κερκεοσῖριν ἀρουρῶν κδ καὶ ὧν οἱ γραμματεῖς ἀνενην[όχ]ασιν ἀντίγραφα ὑπόκειται.
r.9    ἔτους β Τῦβι κζ.
r.10   Πτολεμαῖος καὶ Ἑστιεῖος Ἀπολλωνίωι χαίρειν. τοῦ δεδομένου ἡμῖν [ὑ]πομνήματος παρὰ Διδυμάρχου τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου
r.11   Μακεδόνος τῆς ε ἱππαρχίας τῶν ἑκατονταρούρων τὸ ἀντίγραφον ὑποτετάχαμεν. ἐπεὶ οὖν καὶ οἱ παρʼ ἡμῶν γραμματεῖς
r.12   ἀνενηνόχασιν γεγονέναι αὐτῶι τὴν παραχώρησ[ι]ν τῶν κ[δ] ἀρουρῶν καλῶς ποιήσεις συντάξας
r.13   καὶ παρὰ σοὶ ἀναγράφειν εἰς αὐτὸν ἀκολο[ύθω]ς.
r.14   ἔτους νδ Φαρμοῦθι η.
r.15   Πτολεμαίωι καὶ Ἑστιείωι τοῖς πρώτοις φίλοις καὶ πρὸς τῆι συν[τά]ξει παρὰ Διδυμάρχου τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου
r.16   Μακεδόνος τῆς ε ἱππαρχίας τῶν ἑκατοναρούρων. παρακεχωρημένου μου ὑπὸ Πέτ[ρ]ωνος τοῦ Θέωνος Πέρσου τῆς αὐτῆς
r.17   ἱππαρχίας τὸν ὑπάρχοντʼ αὐτῶι κλῆρον περὶ κερκεοσῖριν τῆς [Πο]λέμωνος μερίδος ἀρουρῶν κδ, τῶν δὲ
r.18   πρὸς ταῖς γραμματείαις ἀγνοούντων τὴν γεγονυῖαν περὶ ἐ[μο]ῦ οἰκονομίαν καὶ ἔτι ἀναγραφόντων
r.19   τὸν κλῆρον εἰς τὸν Πέτρωνα, ἀξιῶ συντάξαι γράψαι Ἀπολλ[ω]νίωι τῶι βασιλικῶι γραμματεῖ ἵνʼ εἰδὼς
r.20   ἀναγράφηι εἴς με τὰς σημαινομένας ἀρούρας κδ ἵνʼ ὦ τετευχὼς [φιλ]ανθρωπίας.
r.21   εὐτύχει.
r.22   παρὰ τῶν γραμματέων. τῆι παρὰ Πτολεμαίου καὶ Ἑ[σ]τιείου τ[ῶν] γενομένων πρὸς τῆι συντάξει τῶν
r.23   κατοίκων ἱππέων προκειμένηι ἐπιστολῆι περὶ ὧν γράφο[υσι] παρακεχωρῆσθαι Διδυμάρχωι Ἀπολλωνίου
r.24   ὑπὸ Πέτρωνος τοῦ Θέωνος τὸν ὑπάρχοντʼ αὐτῶι περὶ Κερ[κεοσ]ῖριν τῆς Πολέμωνος μερίδος κλῆρον ἀρουρῶν κδ
r.25   παρεπιγεγραμμένου ἀνενεγκεῖν τὰ πρὸς ταύτας, ἐπισκοποῦντες διὰ τοῦ ἀπολογισμοῦ τοῦ ἐδάφους
r.26   τοῦ νδ ἔτους τῆς Κερκεοσίρεως εὑρίσκομεν ἀναγραφόμενον ἐν κληρουχίαι ἐν τῆι ἐπὶ τοῦ πατρὸς τοῦ βασιλέως
r.27   καταμεμετρημένηι ἐφόδοις μεταβεβηκότα εἰς τὴν κατοικίαν ἀρουρῶν κδ, ἃς καὶ τοὺς περὶ τὸν Ἑστιεῖον
r.28   γράφειν παρακεχωρῆσθαι τῶι Διδυμάρχωι ἀναφέρομεν.
r.29   ἔτους β Τῦβι κδ.
r.30   κωμογραμματεῖ Μεγχεῖ
r.31   Κερκεοσίρεως

[TRANSLATION]
1     Onnophris, 24 arouras; total, 24. Year 2, Tybi 29. We received (it), year 2, Tybi 29.
2     Onnophris to Menches, greeting. Of the letter from Apollonius son of Poseidonius the royal scribe
3     concerning the matters of which they indicate that 24 arouras around Kerkeosiris have been ceded to Didymarchus son of Apollonius by Petron son of Theon,
4     the copy is appended below, so that, knowing it, you may comply with the instructions.
5     Farewell. Year 2, Tybi 28.
6     [Ap]ollonius son of Poseidonius to Polemon, greeting. Of the letter from Ptolemaeus and Hestieius, the officials in charge of the
7     allotment of the settlers (katoikoi), concerning the matters of which they indicate that 24 arouras around Kerkeosiris have been ceded to Didymarchus by Petron son of
8     Theon, and of which the scribes have reported the copies, (the copy) is appended below.
9     Year 2, Tybi 27.
10    Ptolemaeus and Hestieius to Apollonius, greeting. Of the memorandum given to us by Didymarchus son of Apollonius,
11    a Macedonian of the 5th cavalry-troop of the hundred-aroura men, we have appended the copy below. Since, then, our own scribes too
12    have reported that the cession of the 24 arouras has been made to him, you will do well to give orders
13    that with you also it be registered to him accordingly.
14    Year 54, Pharmouthi 8.
15    To Ptolemaeus and Hestieius, the first friends and officials in charge of the allotment, from Didymarchus son of Apollonius,
16    a Macedonian of the 5th cavalry-troop of the hundred-aroura men. Since there has been ceded to me by Pet[r]on son of Theon, a Persian of the same
17    cavalry-troop, the allotment (kleros) belonging to him around Kerkeosiris in the division of [Po]lemon, of 24 arouras, but those
18    in charge of the registries are ignorant of the transaction made concerning [m]e and still register
19    the allotment to Petron, I request that orders be given to write to Apoll[o]nius the royal scribe, that, knowing it,
20    he may register to me the said 24 arouras, so that I may have obtained [be]neficence.
21    Farewell.
22    From the scribes. To the letter from Ptolemaeus and Hestieius, the officials in charge of the allotment of the
23    settler-cavalry, set forth above, concerning the matters of which they write that there has been ceded to Didymarchus son of Apollonius
24    by Petron son of Theon the allotment belonging to him around Ker[keos]iris in the division of Polemon, of 24 arouras,
25    it being noted in the margin to report the facts concerning these, examining through the survey-account of the land
26    of the 54th year of Kerkeosiris, we find registered in the cleruchy, in the (land) measured out in the (reign) of the father of the king
27    by inspection, having passed over into the settlement, 24 arouras, which we also report that Hestieius and his colleagues
28    write to have been ceded to Didymarchus.
29    Year 2, Tybi 24.
30    To Menches the village-scribe (komogrammateus)
31    of Kerkeosiris.
