[META]
id:       CPR 15.3qtpl
label:    CPR 15.3qtpl
name:     Contract — Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     11 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites) (11 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus — Kopie — griechische Übersetzung eines demotischen Vertrages — Idioslogos — Prozeß (Nestnephis)
tm:       9911
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/cpr;15;3qtpl
lat:      29.5334745
lon:      30.668916

[GREEK]
r.1    ἀντίγραφον [συγ]γραφῆς Αἰγυπτίας πράσεως Ἑλληνιστὶ μεθηρμηνευμένης κατὰ τὸ δυνατόν. ἔτους μα τῆς Καίσαρος κρατήσεως θεοῦ
r.2    υἱοῦ μηνὸς Ἁθὺρ κδ. λέγει ἐμνίθης ὀρπάις τοπαίις προφήτης
r.3    ἐκ προφήτου Χαιρήμων Ἡρώιδου μητρὸς Θάσιτος νοιβουάπει ῥεισεεῖ ῥεισιγέτου νεφερσάτι Σαταβοῦτι Ἑργέως νεωτέρου μητρὸς Σαταβοῦτος·
r.4    πέπεικάς με ἀργυρίῳ τῇ τιμῇ τῆς
r.5    ὑπαρχούσης μοι οἰκίας ᾠκοδομημένης ἐστεγασμένης τεθυρωμένης κάτω ἄνω καὶ τοῦ ἐκ βορρᾶ ταύτης προνησίου καὶ
r.6    αἰθρίου καὶ τῶν ἐκ νότου τόπων ψιλῶν καὶ τῶν συνκυρόντων πάντων ἐν κώμῃ Σούχου νήσου Σωκνοπαίου θεοῦ μεγάλου μεγάλου τῆς Ἡρακλείδου [μερ]ίδος τοῦ Ἀρσινοίτου νομοῦ ἐπὶ τοῖς οὖσι μέτροις πᾶσι.
r.7    γείτονες νότου περίμετρον
r.8    κώμης βορρᾶ Ὥρου τοῦ Ὥρου οἰκία λιβὸς καὶ ἀπηλιώτου ῥῦμαι βασιλικαί. σὰ δʼ ἔστιν ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώση[ς] ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν
r.9    ἅπαντα χρόνον καὶ οὐ[κ] ἐξέσται μοι οὐδʼ ἄλλωι οὐδενὶ ἁπλῶς
r.10   [κυ]ριεύειν αὐτῶν πλὴν σοῦ ἀπὸ τῆς σήμερον ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἀεὶ χρόνον. ἐὰν δέ τις ἐπέλθῃ ἐπὶ σὲ περὶ αὐτῶν ἐκστήσω αὐτὸν ἀπὸ σοῦ
r.11   ἐπάναγκον ἀνεπιεικὲς καὶ βεβαιώσω σοι
r.12   [αὐ]τὰ ἀπό τε συγγραφῶν πασῶν καὶ συναλλαγμάτων πάντων καὶ παντὸς εἴδους ἐάν τε ἀδελφὸς ἢ ἀδελφὴ ἢ υἱὸς ἢ θυγάτηρ ᾖ παντὸς
r.13   τῷ καθόλου. σαὶ δʼ εἰσὶν αἱ γεγονυῖα[ι]
r.14   [κατʼ αὐ]τῶν συ[γ]γραφαὶ πᾶσαι καὶ αἱ γεγενημέναι μοι κατʼ αὐτῶν συγγραφαὶ πᾶσαι καὶ αἱ γεγονυῖαι τῷ τε πατρὶ καὶ τῇ μητρί μου κατʼ
r.15   αὐτῶν συγγραφαὶ πᾶσαι καὶ συναλλάγ[ματα ] …

[TRANSLATION]
1     Copy of an Egyptian deed of sale translated into Greek as far as possible. Year 41 of the rule of Caesar, son of god,
2     in the month Hathyr 24. Emnithes son of Orpais, son of Topais, prophet,
3     son of a prophet, says to Chairemon son of Heroides, his mother being Thasis, Noibouapis Reiseeis Reisigetes Nephersatis, to Satabous son of Hergeus the younger, his mother being Satabous:
4     You have satisfied me with silver, as the price of the
5     house belonging to me, built, roofed, fitted with doors, below and above, and of the fore-court to the north of it, and
6     of the open courtyard, and of the vacant places to the south, and of all that adjoins, in the village of Souchos-island of the great great god Soknopaios, of the Herakleides division of the Arsinoite nome, by all the existing measurements.
7     Neighbors: south, the perimeter
8     of the village; north, the house of Horos son of Horos; west and east, the royal streets. And they are yours from the present day for
9     all time, and it shall not be lawful for me, nor for any other person at all,
10    to be owner of them except you, from this day for all time. And if anyone come against you concerning them, I will remove him from you,
11    of necessity and without indulgence, and I will guarantee
12    them to you against all deeds and all transactions and every kind, whether it be brother or sister or son or daughter — of every
13    sort altogether. And yours are the deeds that have been made
14    against them — all of them, and the deeds that have been made by me against them — all of them, and the deeds that have been made to my father and my mother against
15    them — all the deeds, and the transactions …
