[META]
id:       CPR 4.1
label:    CPR 4.1
name:     Documentary papyrus — Arsinoites
genre:    documents
date:     601 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Arsinoites (601 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Décret — Sceau arabe — Liste de travailleurs et d’arbres — Églises
tm:       82135
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/cpr;4;1
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲱϣ ⲛⲙⲁϥ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲟⲩⲗⲁⲁ[ⲟⲩ ⲛ]κεφάλαιον ⲏ ⲉϩⲗⲏⲓ … ϭⲁⲛⲛⲁ ⲧ[ⲉⲩ]καταγραφή
r.2    ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲟⲩⲁⲁⲧⲥ ⲛⲏⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉὑπογράφειν ⲛⲥⲁ ⲡⲉⲥⲏⲧ ⲉⲧκαταγραφή
r.3    ϩⲉⲛⲛ ⲟⲩὁμολογία ⲉⲥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲟⲩⲧ ϫⲉ ⲁⲟⲩϣⲁⲛκαταγιγνώσκειν ⲛⲙⲁⲛ ⲛⲧⲟⲩϭⲏⲧⲥ
r.4    ⲉⲁⲛϩⲁⲡ ⲟⲩϩⲟϥ ⲗⲁⲧⲛ ϩⲉ ⲛⲉⲓκεφάλαιον ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲧⲓ νόμισμα ⲣ ⲛπρόστιμον
r.5    ⲉⲧϥⲏ ⲡⲉⲓϩⲟϥ γάρ ⲁⲓⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲧ ⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓ ⲡνοτάριος ⲡⲁ ⲧπόλις ⲉⲧϥⲏ ⲡⲉⲓϩⲱϥ
r.6    ⲉⲁⲓπαραγγέλειν ⲛⲏϥ ⲛϥϫⲓ ⲛⲉⲓκαταγραφή ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲙⲓⲛⲓ ⲛϥⲓⲛⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲏⲛ λοιπόν
r.7    ⲛⲡⲉⲗἐμποδίζειν ⲛⲙⲁϥ οὐδέ ⲛⲡⲉⲗⲕⲉ ⲗⲁⲁⲟⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲓϭⲓ κατά ⲧⲉⲕψυχή ⲁⲩⲱ
r.8    ⲧⲓ ⲟⲩⲧⲉϥⲛⲏ ⲛⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓ ⲡνοτάριος ⲉϫⲓⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲧⲓⲙⲓ ϣⲁ ⲕⲉⲧⲓⲙⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲡⲉⲗἀμφιβάλλειν
r.9    ⲉⲡⲉⲓσιγίλλιον ⲁⲓⲥϩⲏⲧϥ ⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁⲃⲉⲃ ϩⲛ ⲧⲁβούλλα ἐγράφη μηνὶ Παχων κε ἰνδικτίονος β
r.10   ⲉⲧⲃⲏ ⲧκαταγραφή ⲛⲉⲛⲁϭ ⲛτεχνίτης ⲧⲏⲗⲟⲩ ⲧⲁⲗⲉⲧⲛⲉϭⲁⲛⲛⲁⲥ ⲛⲏⲛ
r.11   ϫⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲡϣⲏ ⲛⲛⲓⲙ ⲡⲁ ⲉϣ ⲉⲧⲓⲙⲓ ⲉⲃⲏ ⲛⲛⲉϣ ⲛτέχνη
r.12   ⲉⲧⲃⲏ ⲛⲉⲕⲟⲩ ⲛτεχνίτης ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲧⲉⲓⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲥⲉϩ ϫⲉ ⲧⲥⲁⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲉτέχνη
r.13   ⲧⲁⲗⲉⲧⲛⲉϭⲁⲛⲛⲁ ⲧⲉⲩκαταγραφή ⲛⲏⲛ ⲁⲛ πρός ⲡⲉⲓσκάριφος ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ
r.14   ⲙⲛ ⲡⲗⲉⲛ ⲛⲉτεχνίτης ⲉⲩϩⲁⲑⲏⲟⲩ
r.15   ⲉⲧⲃⲏ ⲧκαταγραφή ⲛⲃⲏⲛⲓ ⲛⲓⲃⲓ ⲉⲩⲗⲏⲧ εἴτε ⲡⲉⲧⲧⲓ καρπός εἴτε
r.16   ⲡⲉⲧⲧⲓ ⲉⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉτάσσειν ⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲏⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉσαφηνίζειν
r.17   ⲛⲁ ⲛⲉἐκκκλησία ⲛⲏⲛ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ
r.18   ⲉⲧⲃⲏ ⲧκαταγραφή ⲛϣⲁⲛⲧⲓ ⲛⲓⲃⲓ ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲁⲃⲉ ⲧⲁⲗⲉⲧⲛⲉⲥϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲏⲛ
r.19   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲩⲁⲛⲁϩ ⲛⲁ ⲛⲉἐκκκλησία ⲉⲃⲁⲗ ⲛⲏⲛ ϩⲓⲱⲟⲩ

[TRANSLATION]
1     … with him also concerning the [other] chapter (matter) … the deed of cession (katagraphe)
2     that you (pl.) be sole owners of them, and that you subscribe below the deed of cession
3     in an acknowledgement (homologia) that is secure, that if anyone goes to law against us concerning them
4     and a judgement is given against us(?) … these chapters of this kind, that you shall pay 100 solidi as penalty (prostimon)
5     who(?) annuls this (judgement); for I, Georgios the notary (notarios), the one of the city which annuls this (judgement),
6     having instructed him to take these deeds of cession of this kind and to bring them to us, henceforth (loipon)
7     none shall hinder (empodizein) him, nor shall any other person take (anything) according to your soul (oath), and
8     I give over to Georgios the notary, from those things you value, up to another value, and none shall dispute (amphiballein)
9     concerning this document (sigillion); I have written it, I have sealed it in my register (boulla). It was written in the month Pachon 25, of the 2nd indiction.
10    concerning the deed of cession of the great craftsmen (technitai), all of them, that which you ceded to us
11    as to who is the son of whom, the one(?) who can value the one against the others, of the crafts (technai)
12    concerning the goods of the craftsmen which they delivered to you, that the … of the crafts
13    that which you have ceded to us, the deed of cession, also according to this single document
14    with the rest of the craftsmen who are subordinate(?)
15    concerning the deed of cession of all the … which are gathered, whether the one that yields fruit (karpos) or
16    that which (does) not, you shall assign (tassein) it to us and you shall make clear (saphenizein)
17    these to us, the things of the churches (ekklesiai), among them
18    concerning the deed of cession of all the pure(?) … which you have written for us
19    and you shall release them, the things of the churches, outside, away from them (off their backs).
