[META]
id:       CPR 7.20
label:    CPR 7.20
name:     Letter — Hermopolis
genre:    letters
date:     305 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Hermopolis (305 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Briefe (amtlich) — Rat von Hermopolis an den Hegemon NN — Liturgie — Befreiung
tm:       15835
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/cpr;7;20
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    λ τῇ κοινῇ ἡμῶν βουλῇ, μέγιστε ἡγεμών, μέλει παντὸς προυργιαίτερον τὸ εὐσυνείδητον καὶ τὸ συνγνώμην … θυνειν βουληθῆναι
r.2    τοῖς ἀσθενέσι παρὰ εὐπορίαν, πολὺ δὲ μᾶλλον τοῖς καὶ κατὰ σῶμα καὶ ἡλικίαν· ὧν τυγχάνει εἷς ὢν Ἑρμίας Σαραπίωνος,
r.3    ὃν ἡ σὴ μεγαλειότης πρου … α μὲν ἔξων, ἐπεὶ τετύχηκε ἀπορίαν προβαλλόμενος ἀξιῶν ἀνεθῆναι τ …
r.4    ἐπέστειλέν τε τῷ τοῦ νομοῦ ἡμῶν στρατηγῷ Πολυ, ὥστε ἐξετάζειν μὲν περὶ αὐτοῦ ἀκριβέστερον ἀνευ … κειν …
r.5    ἐπὶ τω … ἀνδ · ἀλλʼ ἐπεὶ καὶ ἡ κοινὴ ἡμῶν βουλὴ συνιόντων ἡμῶν α … ν … ν σύνολον
r.6    … θ προσῆλθεν ὁ πρεσβύτερος καὶ συνγινώσκειν ἐ … εικεν τῷ … τηνικαῦτα κοινῇ ψήφῳ … διει … ευ … α … δ …
r.7    παρασυνχωρήσῃς ἡμῖν … χω αὐτ …
r.8    ἀντεισάγειν ἱκανὸν ἀντισχεῖν πρὸς ἅπαντα τὰ πρὸς αὐτὸν ζητήματα.
r.9    καὶ ἐνδείξαντος τά τε ὑπὸ τ σ … ανδ κ … ε πολυδε … τος καὶ ἃ ὑπὸ τοῦ στρατηγοῦ … χθη …
r.10   τῆς σῆς περὶ πάντα προνοίας, διασημότατε ἡγεμών, ἤρτηται καὶ ἡ τῶν ταμιακῶν γενῶν ἀρ … ων λει …
r.11   ἐπιμελητῶν τῶν ἡμετέρων εἰς ἅπαντα ταῦτα χειροτονουμένων σωτηρία· …
r.12   τῶν μοδίων ὑπάρχει α τὴν αὐτὴν μὲν ἰδέαν ἀπέχειν τοῦ
r.13   μεγέθους, οὐ τὸν αὐτὸν δὲ τ … των τῶν μετρουμένων
r.14   πολυχωρ … ς ἐκ τούτων διαφορᾶς ἄλλης οὔσης τῆς μετρήσεως αὐτῆς καὶ τῆς κατακενώσεως τῶν
r.15   μέτρων, ἐν μὲν τοῖς πολυχώροις βραδύτερον κατιόντων τῶν γενῶν, ἐν δὲ τοῖς τριχώροις ἰσχυούσης
r.16   τῆς κατακενώσεως· τότε ἑνὸς δοκοῦντος εἶναι μέτρου τῇ δὲ διαφορᾷ δ … τοντων ς …
r.17   λειτουργίας ὑγιῶς πράττοντας ἐνδεῖν καὶ δοκεῖν ὀφλεῖν παρακομίζοντας τὸ πλῆρες. διὰ τοῦτο
r.18   κοινῇ γνώμῃ ἐψηφίσμεθα προσπεσεῖν σοῦ τῇ μεγαλειότῃ καὶ δεῖσθαι δοῖον θάτερον ὑπάρχειν ἡμῖν, ἐπεὶ τά μέ[τρα]
r.19   κατὰ τῶν πόλεων τῶν ἡμετέρων πολύχωρα τυγχάνει τοῦ χαλκοῦ σχεδὸν ὡς εἰπεῖν σκεπάζοντος τὸ μόδιον εἰς …
r.20   βραχυτάτας ἔχοντος, τὰ δὲ τῶν ἄλλων πόλεων [τρ]ί[χ]ωρα τυνχάνειν, ἔνθα καὶ ἡ παράδοσις τῶν
r.21   γενῶν γίνεται, ἢ τ … αὐτ τει ὑπάρχειν καὶ τὰ παρʼ ἡμῖν μέτρα τυνχάνειν καὶ τι … ω … α … του …
r.22   … κακ … πολύχωρα ἵνα μὴ … ὁ ἡμέτερος …
r.23   … τῇ τῶν μέτρων κατακενώσει διαφορὰ κα …
r.24   καὶ ἐνδεῆ κατὰ τοιαῦτα παρὰ τὴν δόξαν … τὰς λειτουργίας ἔχειν κ …
r.25   καὶ τοῦ δοκεῖν κακουργώτερον προσενηνέχθαι τῇ λειτουργίᾳ τῆς ὑποε …
r.26   ηντιναπ … λειν …
r.27   … αχ καθολικω διαα … ορ … τὸ δίκαιον …
r.28   ἡ θεία τύχη τῶν ἀθανάτων Αὐτοκρατόρων τε καὶ Καισάρων ἀεὶ δωρουμένη … ἑαυτῆς ἀνθρώποις καὶ ταῦτα ἀνθρώποις
r.29   δεδώρηται, τὰς οὐσίας ἁπάσας τῶν τότε ἀποφάσει ὑποπεσόντων καὶ τὰς κτήσεις αὔξησιν συνθεμένη …
r.30   πρὸς αὔξησιν τῶν πόλεων καὶ εὐδαιμονίαν μείζονα, ὡς μὴ μόνον περιγενέσθαι τῷ καθʼ ἕνα τῶν διαφερόντων τοῖς ὀνο[μασθεῖσιν]
r.31   ἀλλὰ καὶ τὰς πόλεις τῶν λειτουργησόντων εὐπορεῖν καὶ τούτων εὐδαιμόνων υπερχ ἔστι νῦν συντέλειαν
r.32   ετουτων ἄρουρ …

[TRANSLATION]
1     … To our common council, greatest prefect, it is a care more important than anything to be willing to … the good-conscience and the … of pardon
2     to the weak rather than to the well-off, but much more to those (weak) also in body and age; one of whom happens to be Hermias son of Sarapion,
3     whom your Greatness … on the one hand, since he has chanced, putting forward his poverty, asking to be released …
4     and he wrote to the strategos of our nome, Poly…, so as to examine more accurately concerning him without … coming …
5     upon the … man; but since our common council too, when we came together, … entirely
6     … th… the elder came forward and to grant pardon … to the … then by common vote … diei…eu…a…d…
7     you would grant us as a concession … cho aut…
8     to substitute (someone) able to hold out against all the questions concerning him.
9     And when it had been shown both the things by … and what was … by the strategos … chthe …
10    of your forethought concerning all things, most distinguished prefect, there depends also the … of the fiscal kinds … lei…
11    the safety of our overseers chosen for all these things; …
12    of the modii it happens that one … to have the same form of
13    magnitude, but not the same … of the things measured
14    … from these there being another difference of the very measuring and of the emptying of the
15    measures, in the large-capacity (measures) the kinds going down more slowly, but in the three-choros ones the emptying being effective;
16    then, one measure seeming to be (one), but by the difference d…tonton s…
17    those performing the liturgy soundly to be in deficit and to seem to owe though delivering the full amount. On account of this
18    by common decision we voted to fall before your Greatness and to beg that it be granted to us to have the one or the other, since the measures
19    against our cities happen to be large-capacity, the bronze almost, so to speak, covering the modius into …
20    having very small (ones), but those of the other cities happen to be three-choros, where also the delivery of
21    the kinds takes place, or … to be the case and our measures too to be … and ti…o…a…tou…
22    … kak … large-capacity, so that our … may not …
23    … by the emptying of the measures a difference ka…
24    and to be in deficit in such matters contrary to expectation … to have the liturgies k…
25    and to seem to have been brought to the liturgy more maliciously of the …
26    … any … lein …
27    … ach general dia…or… the just thing …
28    the divine fortune of the immortal Emperors and Caesars, ever bestowing … of itself upon men, and these things upon men
29    it has bestowed, the entire estates of those who then fell under sentence and the possessions, having contrived an increase …
30    toward the increase of the cities and a greater prosperity, so that not only it accrue to each individual of those concerned with the things named
31    but also the cities of those who shall perform liturgies be well off and of these prosperous … there is now a contribution
32    of these arouras …
