[META]
id:       CPR 6.6
label:    CPR 6.6
name:     Contract — Hermopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     439 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Hermopolis (439 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Dialysis — Verkauf (Land) — Erhalt der Kaufsumme — Eid — Überschreibung des Landstücks — Unterschriften (Zeugen) — Namen
tm:       15774
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/cpr;6;6
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν τοῦ δεσπ[ότου] ἡ[μ]ῶν Θεοδοσίου τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγ[ού]στου τὸ ιϛ καὶ Φλαουίου Φαύστου το[ῦ]
r.2    λαμπροτάτου Ἐπεὶφ ιδ η ἰνδικτίονος.
r.3    Φλαουίῳ Σαραποδώρῳ τῷ καθοσιωμένῳ μαγιστρ[ι]ανῷ τῶν θείων ὀφφικίων ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως
r.4    τῆς λαμπροτάτης
r.5    παρὰ Αὐρηλίο[υ] Κορνηλίου Πινουτίω[νος] ἑξῆς ὑπογράφοντος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως χαίρειν. ἐπειδ[ὴ]
r.6    πέπρακα τῇ σῇ ἀρετῇ ἀρούρας ὀκτὼ διακειμένας ἐν τῷ ἀ[πηλ]ιώτῃ ἐν τῷ πατρώῳ μου γεωργίῳ
r.7    ὑπὸ Ταυρῖνου Σοίτος πρεσβυτέρου καθολικῆς ἐκκλησίας ἀπὸ κώμης Θραγῆ καὶ τούτων τελέσματα
r.8    μετήνεγκας εἰς σεαυτὸν κατὰ τὴν δύναμιν τῆς γενομένης εἴς σε παρʼ ἐμοῦ πράσεως καὶ πληρ[ω]θεὶς τοῦ τελείου τιμήματος παραδέδωκά σοι τὴν νομὴν τῶν αὐτῶν ἀρουρῶν μετὰ τοῦ αἱρο[ῦντος]
r.9    αὐταῖς μέρους τοῦ ἐκεῖσε λάκκου καὶ ἐνεμήθης σωματικῶς … τηρετετω δικαίῳ. διὰ τοῦτο
r.10   καὶ ταύτην σοι τίθημι τὴν διάλυσιν διʼ ἧς ὁμολογῶ ἐπομνύμενος τόν τε παντοκράτορα Θεὸν καὶ τὴν θείαν καὶ οὐράνιον τύχην τῶν τὰ πάντα νικώντων δεσποτῶν
r.11   ἡμῶν Φλαουίου Θεοδοσίου Φλαουίου Οὐαλεντινιανοῦ τῶν αἰωνίων Αὐγούστων μηδένα λόγον ἔχειν πρός [σε]
r.12   τοῦ λοιποῦ περὶ τῶν αὐτῶν ἀρουρῶν μήτε περὶ νομῆς μήτε περὶ δεσποτείας μήτε περὶ
r.13   ἄλλου τιμήματος μήτε περὶ συντελείας ἢ προτελείας μήτε περὶ ἐκφορίων τοῦ
r.14   φθάσαντος χρόνου μήτε περὶ οἱασδήποτε προφάσεως τῶν αὐτῶν ἕνεκεν ἀρουρῶ[ν]
r.15   διὰ τὸ καὶ πεπληρῶσθαί με τῆς τελείας τιμῆς καὶ εἰς σεαυτὸν μετατεθεῖσθαι τὰ τού[τω]ν
r.16   τελέσματα καθὼς προεῖπον καὶ ἐσβέσθαι μοι πάσαν πρόφασιν καὶ ἀμφισβήτησιν
r.17   πρός σε καὶ μηδὲν διεψεῦσθαι ἢ ἔνοχος εἴην τῷ θείῳ ὅρκῳ καὶ τῷ περὶ τούτου κινδύνῳ
r.18   καὶ πρὸς σὴν ἀσφάλειαν ταύτην ἐθέμην σοι τὴν διάλυσιν κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαιῶ
r.19   καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρήλιος Κορνήλιο[ς] Πινουτίωνος ὁ προκείμενος ἐθέμην τὴν
r.20   διάλ[υσιν καὶ] εὐδοκῶ καὶ πείθομαι πᾶσι τοῖς ἐγγεγραμμένοις καὶ ὤμοσα τὸν θεῖον
r.21   ὅρκον ὡς πρόκειται καὶ ἀπέλυσα καὶ ἔστιν μου ἰδιόγραφον ὁλόκληρον Αὐρήλιος
r.22   Ἑρμόφιλος Πινουτίωνος βουλευτὴς Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως παρήμην καὶ μαρτυρῶ τῇ διαλύσει.
r.23   Αὐρήλιος Ὡρίων Ἀπολῶτος βουλευτὴς Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως παρήμην καὶ μαρτυρῶ τῇ διαλύσει.
r.24   Αὐρήλιος Πόλλων Ἑρμοῦ διαστολεὺς ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως παρήμην καὶ μαρτυρῶ τῇ διαλύσει.

[TRANSLATION]
1     After the consulship of our master Theodosius the eternal Augustus for the 16th time and of Flavius Faustus the
2     most illustrious, Epeiph 14, 8th indiction.
3     To Flavius Sarapodoros, the most devoted magistrianus of the divine offices, from Hermopolis
4     the most illustrious,
5     from Aurelius Cornelius son of Pinoution, subscribing below, from the same city, greeting. Since
6     I sold to your Excellence eight arouras situated in the east in my paternal farmstead
7     under Taurinos son of Soïs, presbyter of the Catholic Church, from the village of Thrage, and these their tax-payments
8     you transferred to yourself in accordance with the force of the sale made to you by me, and being paid the full price, I handed over to you the possession of the same arouras together with the share belonging
9     to them of the cistern there, and you were put in possession bodily … by lawful right. For this reason
10    I also establish for you this settlement, through which I acknowledge, swearing by God the Almighty and by the divine and heavenly fortune of our masters who conquer all things,
11    Flavius Theodosius and Flavius Valentinian the eternal Augusti, that I have no claim against [you]
12    henceforth concerning the same arouras, neither about possession nor about ownership nor about
13    another price nor about taxation or pre-taxation nor about rents of the
14    past time nor about any pretext whatsoever on account of the same arouras,
15    because I have both been paid the full price and the tax-payments of these have been transferred to yourself
16    as I said before, and every pretext and dispute has been extinguished for me
17    against you, and I have in no way lied, or may I be liable to the divine oath and to the peril concerning this,
18    and for your security I have established for you this settlement, being valid, and I guarantee it
19    and on being questioned I acknowledged it. Aurelius Cornelius son of Pinoution, the aforesaid, have established the
20    settlement and I consent and I am persuaded by all that is written and I swore the divine
21    oath as is set forth above and I released it, and it is wholly in my own hand. Aurelius
22    Hermophilos son of Pinoution, councillor of Hermopolis, was present and I bear witness to the settlement.
23    Aurelius Horion son of Apolos, councillor of Hermopolis, was present and I bear witness to the settlement.
24    Aurelius Pollon son of Hermes, distributor (diastoleus), from Hermopolis, was present and I bear witness to the settlement.
