[META]
id:       P.ABINN 33
label:    P.ABINN 33
name:     Petition — Philadelphia? (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     346 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia? (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Philadelphia? (Arsinoites) (346 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Clematius an Abinnaeus — Bitte um Urlaub für einen Soldaten
tm:       10030
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.abinn;;33
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    τῷ δεσπότῃ μου Ἀβιννέῳ
r.2    Κλημάτιος.
r.3    πάντας τοὺς φίλους ἀεὶ εὐχόμεθα ἐν μείζοσιν προκόπτοντας πράττειν, ἵνα καὶ
r.4    ἡμεῖς τῆς πράξεως ἐκείνων ἀπολαύειν δοκῶμεν. ἓν οὖν καὶ τοῦτό μοί ἐστιν
r.5    διὰ γραμμάτων παρακαλέσαι τὴν σὴν χρηστότητα, κύριε, ἀπαράβλητε, καὶ ἵνα μὴ νομίσῃς
r.6    διά τι κέρδος τοῦτό με ποιεῖν, γνωρίζω τῇ εὐγενείᾳ σου τὸ πρᾶγμα. Ἰσίων τις πρόμωτος
r.7    ἐκ τῶν ὑπὸ τὴν σὴν φροντίδα διαφέρει μοι, διαφέρει δὲ καὶ τῷ κυρίῳ μου καὶ ἀδελφῷ
r.8    Παύλῳ τῷ κορνικουλαρίῳ τῆς παρεμβολῆς. πενθερὸς γὰρ τυγχάνει Τιμοθέου οὐετραν[οῦ]
r.9    τοῦ ἐν Παρ … τοντι κεκτημένου, ὄντος ὁμογνησίου ἀδελφοῦ τοῦ προειρημένου
r.10   Παύλου. ἐπεὶ οὖν οὐδεμία διαφορά ἐστιν μεταξὺ ἐμοῦ καὶ ἐκείνων διὰ τοῦτο
r.11   παρακαλέσαι σε ἔσπευσα ὅπως συνχωρήσῃς τούτῳ τοῖς πράγμασιν ἡμῶν
r.12   προσέχειν, δυναμένου σοῦ ὅπου τις ἀνά[γ]κη κατεπείγει τοῦτον μετακαλέσασθαι καὶ πάλιν
r.13   εὐθέως ποιῆσαι ὡς προεῖπον, τοῖς πράγμασιν ἡμῶν προσέχειν. ἵνα δὲ γνῶμεν ὅτι τῇ
r.14   ἀξιώσει ἡμῶν ἐπένευσας καταξίωσον δεξάμενός μου τὰ γράμματα, κύριέ μου,
r.15   ἀντιγράψαι μοι περὶ τούτου. ἐρρῶσθαί σε
r.16   εὔχομαι πολλ[ο]ῖς
r.17   χρόνοις, κύριε.
r.18   τῷ δεσπότῃ μο[υ] Ἀβιννέῳ
r.19   Κλημάτιος.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To my master Abinnaeus,
2     Klematios.
3     We always pray that all our friends prosper, advancing in ever greater things, so that
4     we too may seem to enjoy their advancement. So this is the one thing I have
5     by letter to entreat your kindness, lord, peerless one; and lest you think
6     that I do this for some gain, I make known to your nobility the matter. A certain Ision, a promoted (soldier),
7     from those under your care, is connected to me, and is connected also to my lord and brother
8     Paulus the cornicularius of the camp. For he happens to be the father-in-law of Timotheus the veteran,
9     who is established in Par… being the full brother of the aforementioned
10    Paulus. Since, therefore, there is no difference between me and them, for this reason
11    I have hastened to entreat you, that you may grant to this man to attend to our affairs,
12    you being able, whenever some necessity presses, to recall him and again
13    at once to make him, as I said before, attend to our affairs. And that we may know that
14    you have assented to our request, deign, having received my letter, my lord,
15    to write back to me about this. I pray that you
16    fare well for many
17    years, lord.
18    To my master Abinnaeus,
19    Klematios.
