[META]
id:       P.ADL G13
label:    P.ADL G13
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       13a 13b
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.adl;;G13
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ιδ Παῦνι κθ
r.2    ἀπέδοτο Πανᾶς
r.3    Πατῆι τὸ ἐπιβάλλον
r.4    αὐτῶι μέρος ἕβδομον
r.5    σφραγίδων δ χαλκοῦ ταλάντων ιβ.
r.6    β[α]σιλευόντων Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Βερενίκης τῆς ἀδελφῆς θεῶν Φιλομητόρων
r.7    ἔ[το]υς τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Παῦνι κθ
r.8    ἐν Κροκοδίλων πόλει ἐπὶ Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου τῆς ἄνω τοπαρχίας τοῦ Παθυρίτου.
r.9    ἀπέδοτο Πανᾶς Πατῆτος Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς τῶν ἐκ Παθύρεως ὡς ἐτῶν με μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος
r.10   εὐθύριν οὐλὴ ὑπὲρ ὀφθαλμὸν ἀριστερὸν κακοπώγων ἀπὸ τῆς ὑπαρχούσης αὐτῶι καὶ τοῖς δανεισταῖς ἐν τῶι ἀπὸ βορρᾶ
r.11   πεδίωι Παθύρεως γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου ἀδιαιρέτου σφραγίδων δ, μιᾶς μὲν ἀρουρῶν ὅσων ἂν ἦι ἧς γείτονες
r.12   νότου γῆ Πατήφιος τοῦ Πεμσάιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πακοίβιος ἧς κρατοῦσιν οἱ Φίβιος τοῦ Πανεχάτου υἱοί, ἀπηλιώτου ὁδὸς βασιλική,
r.13   λιβὸς γῆ Ψεμμώνθου τοῦ Πανεχάτου, ἄλλης ὁμοίως γείτονες νότου γῆ τοῦ προγεγραμμένου Πακοίβιος ἧς κρατοῦσιν οἱ αὐτοί,
r.14   βορρᾶ Ταθώτιος τῆς Φίβιος, ἀπηλιώτου ὁδὸς βασιλική, λιβὸς γῆ Νεχούτου τοῦ Πελαίου καὶ γῆ Πορεγέβθιος
r.15   τοῦ Ἐπωνύχου, ἄλλης σφραγίδος λεγομένης Φαμούνιος, γείτονες νότου γῆ Παθώτου τοῦ Πατοῦτος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πατσεοῦτος
r.16   τοῦ Φίβιος, ἀπηλιώτου ποταμός, λιβὸς γῆ λεγομένη Ἁροήριος, ἄλλης ἧς γείτονες νότου γῆ Ὀννώφριος
r.17   τοῦ [Ἰ]μούθου ἧς κρατεῖ Πετοσῖρις ὁ ἱερεύς, βορρᾶ γῆ Ἀχοναίβιος τοῦ Πόρτιτος, ἀπηλιώτου διῶρυξ λεγομένη Τέλωνος,
r.18   λιβὸς ὄρος, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες τούτων πάντων πάντοθεν,
r.19   τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῶι μέρος ἕβδομον. ἐπρίατο Πατῆς Ποήριος
r.20   Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς τῶν ἐκ τῆς αὐτῆς Παθύρεως ὡς ἐτῶν μ
r.21   μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ μετώπῳ ἐκ δεξιῶν χαλκοῦ ταλάντων δέκα δύο .
r.22   προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύ[τ]ην πάντων
r.23   Πανᾶς ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Πατῆς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.24   Πανίσκος κεχρημάτικα.
r.25   ἔτους ιδ Παῦνι κθ τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Κροκοδίλων πόλει τράπεζαν ἐφʼ ἧς πανίσκος
r.26   δεκάτης ἐγκυκλίου κατὰ τὴν παρὰ Πανίσκου τοῦ πρὸς τῆι ὠνῆι [διαγραφήν],
r.27   ὑφʼ ἣν ὑπογράφει Ἀπολλώνιος ὁ ἀντιγραφεύς, Πατῆς Ποήριος γῆς ἠπείρου
r.28   ἐν σφραγῖσι δ ὅσαι ἐὰν ὦσι ἐν τῶι ἀπὸ βορρᾶ πεδίωι Παθύρεως, ὧν
r.29   αἱ γειτνίαι δεδήλωνται διὰ τῆς προκειμένης συγγραφῆς, ἃς ἠγόρασεν παρὰ
r.30   Πανᾶτος τοῦ Πατῆτος χαλκοῦ ταλάντων ιβ, τέλος τάλαντον α Ασ.
r.31   Πανίσκος τραπεζίτης τάλαντον α Βχμ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 14, Pauni 29.
2     Panas has sold
3     to Pates the share falling
4     to him, the seventh part
5     of 4 plots, for 12 talents of copper.
6     In the reign of Ptolemy surnamed Alexander and Berenike his sister, the Mother-loving gods,
7     in the fourteenth year, in the priesthoods of the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros that are in office, in the month Pauni, the 29th,
8     in Crocodilopolis, before Paniskos agoranomos of the upper toparchy of the Pathyrites.
9     Panas son of Pates, a Persian of the epigone, of those from Pathyris, about 45 years old, of middle (height), honey-colored, straight-haired, long-faced,
10    straight-nosed, with a scar above the left eye, with a poor beard, from the property belonging to him and to his creditors, in the field to the north
11    of Pathyris, dry grain-bearing land, undivided, of 4 plots: of one, of however many arouras it may be, of which the neighbors are:
12    to the south, the land of Patephis son of Pemsais; to the north, the land of Pakoibis, which the sons of Phibis son of Panechates control; to the east, the royal road;
13    to the west, the land of Psemmonthes son of Panechates; of another likewise the neighbors are: to the south, the land of the aforewritten Pakoibis, which the same control,
14    to the north, (the land) of Tathotis daughter of Phibis; to the east, the royal road; to the west, the land of Nechoutes son of Pelaios and the land of Poregebthis
15    son of Eponychos; of another plot, called that of Phamounis, the neighbors are: to the south, the land of Pathotes son of Patous; to the north, the land of Patseous
16    son of Phibis; to the east, the river; to the west, the land called Haroeris's; of another, of which the neighbors are: to the south, the land of Onnophris
17    son of [I]mouthes, which Petosiris the priest controls; to the north, the land of Achonaibis son of Portis; to the east, the canal called Telon's,
18    to the west, the mountain; or whoever the neighbors of all these may be on every side,
19    the share falling to him, the seventh part. Pates son of Poeris has bought (it),
20    a Persian of the epigone, of those from the same Pathyris, about 40 years old,
21    of middle (height), honey-colored, straight-haired, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on the forehead on the right, for twelve talents of copper.
22    Fore-seller and guarantor of all things concerning this purchase
23    (is) Panas the seller, whom Pates the buyer accepted.
24    I, Paniskos, have transacted (this).
25    Year 14, Pauni 29. There has been paid to the bank in Crocodilopolis, at which Paniskos (is),
26    of the ten-percent circulation-tax, according to the [payment-order] from Paniskos who is in charge of the tax-farm,
27    under which Apollonios the controller subscribes: Pates son of Poeris, of dry land
28    in 4 plots, however many they may be, in the field to the north of Pathyris, of which
29    the neighbors have been shown through the foregoing contract, which he bought from
30    Panas son of Pates for 12 talents of copper; tax, 1 talent 1200 (drachmas).
31    Paniskos the banker: 1 talent 2640 (drachmas).
