[META]
id:       P.AMH 2.43
label:    P.AMH 2.43
name:     Contract — Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     173 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Soknopaiu Nesos (Arsinoites) (173 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Getreide
tm:       2650
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.amh;2;43
lat:      29.5334745
lon:      30.668916

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου τοῦ Πτολεμαίου καὶ Κλεοπάτρας θεῶν Ἐπιφανῶν ἔτους ὀγδόου
r.2    ἐφʼ ἱερέως Ἡρακλεοδώρου Ἀπολλοφάνου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν Σωτήρων καὶ θ[εῶ]ν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν Εὐεργετῶν
r.3    καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν Ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλομητόρων, ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκη[ς] Εὐ[ερ]γέτιδος Σαραπιάδος Ἀπολλων[ίου],
r.4    κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου Ἀριστοκλείας τῆς Δημητρ[ί]ου, ἱερείας Ἀρσινόης Φιλοπάτορος
r.5    Εἰρήνης τῆς Πτολεμαίου, μηνὸς Λωίου τρεισκαιδεκάτηι Μεχεὶρ τρεισκαιδεκάτηι, ἐν τῆι
r.6    Σοκνοπαίου Νήσωι τοῦ Ἀρσινοίτου νομοῦ. ἐδάνεισε Μαρρῆς Πακύσιος Ἀρσι[ν]οίτης Μενελάωι
r.7    Παριγέτου Μακεδόνι τῆς ἐπιγονῆς πυροῦ ἀρτάβας δέκα . ἀποδότω δὲ Μενέλαος Μαρρῆτι
r.8    τὸ δάνειον τῶν δέκα ἀρταβῶν τῶν πυρῶν ἐν μηνὶ Αὐδυναίωι Αἰγυπτ[ίω]ν δὲ Ἐπεὶφ
r.9    ἢ ὅταν ἡ ἄφεσις τῶν πυρίνων καρπῶν γένηται πυρὸν νέον ἄδολον καθαρὸν ἀπὸ παντός, μέτρωι
r.10   δικαίωι τῶι πρὸς τὸ βασιλικὸν χαλκοῦν μετρήσει καὶ σκυτάληι [δ]ικαίαι καὶ καταστησάτω εἰς τὴν Σοκνοπαίου πρὸς Μαρρῆν τοῖς ἰδίοις ἀνηλώμασι. ἂν τῶν ἀρταβῶν
r.11   τοῦ πυροῦ μὴ ἀποδῶι ἀποτεισάτω τιμὴν δραχμὰς πεντεκοσίας , καὶ ἡ πρᾶξις ἔστω
r.12   Μαρρῆτι τῶι κατὰ τὴν γραφὴν παρά τε ἑαυτοῦ Μενελάου καὶ ἐ[κ] τῶν ὑπαρχόντων
r.13   αὐτῶι πάντων πράσσοντι κατὰ τὸ διάγραμμα καὶ τοὺς νόμους. κύριος δʼ ἔστω
r.14   καὶ α … τ … ς πράσσοντα του εκ … η κρισι …
r.15   Πάσιππος Ξένων Θεόδωρος Πτολεμαῖος Μακεδόνες, Φίλων Θρᾶιξ, Σωσικράτης Κρής,
r.16   οἱ ἓξ τῶν ἐν τῆι Σοκνοπαίου Νήσωι φρουρούντων καὶ μισθοφόρων.
r.17   συγγραφοφύλαξ Φίλων.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Ptolemy son of Ptolemy and Cleopatra, the gods Epiphaneis, in the eighth year,
2     in the priesthood of Herakleodoros son of Apollophanes, of Alexander and the Saviour gods and the Sibling gods and the Benefactor gods
3     and the Father-loving gods and the Manifest gods and the Mother-loving gods; the prize-bearer of Berenike Euergetis being Sarapias daughter of Apollon[ios],
4     the basket-bearer of Arsinoe Philadelphos being Aristokleia daughter of Demetr[i]os, the priestess of Arsinoe Philopator
5     being Eirene daughter of Ptolemy; on the thirteenth of the month Loios, the thirteenth of Mecheir, in
6     Soknopaiou Nesos of the Arsinoite nome. There lent Marres son of Pakysis, Arsinoite, to Menelaos
7     son of Pariges, Macedonian of the epigone, ten artabas of wheat. Let Menelaos repay to Marres
8     the loan of the ten artabas of wheat in the month Audnaios, of the Egyptians Epeiph,
9     or whenever the release of the wheat-crops takes place — new wheat, unadulterated, pure, free of everything, by a just
10    measure, by the bronze (measure) for the royal (treasury) he shall measure, and by a just leveling-rod, and let him deliver (it) to Soknopaiou (Nesos) to Marres at his own expense. If of the artabas
11    of wheat he does not repay, let him pay as their value five hundred drachmas, and let the right of execution belong
12    to Marres according to the deed, both from Menelaos himself and from all his belongings,
13    acting according to the decree and the laws. And let it be valid
14    also … acting … the … judgment …
15    Pasippos, Xenon, Theodoros, Ptolemaios, Macedonians; Philon, Thracian; Sosikrates, Cretan,
16    the six of those garrisoning in Soknopaiou Nesos and (being) mercenaries.
17    Keeper of the contract: Philon.
