[META]
id:       P.AMH 2.31
label:    P.AMH 2.31
name:     Receipt — Theben
genre:    receipts
date:     112 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Theben (112 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Quittung — Bank — Bericht — amtlich
tm:       43546
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.amh;2;31
lat:      25.61988
lon:      32.54305

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ϛ Χοίαχ η. τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Ἑρμώνθει τράπεζαν ἐφʼ ἧς Διονύσιος εἰς τὸν ἴδιον λόγον τῶν βασιλέων
r.2    κατὰ διαγραφὴν Ἑρμίου τοῦ ἐπὶ τῶν προσόδων καὶ Φίβιος τοῦ βασιλικοῦ γραμματέως, ἧς καὶ
r.3    τὸ ἀντίγραφον ὑπόκειται, Σενποῆρις Ὀννώφριος προστίμου φοινικῶνος πηχῶν β χαλκοῦ
r.4    Ασ τέλη ρπ.
r.5    Διονύσιος τραπεζίτης.
r.6    Ἑρμίας Διονυσίωι χαίρειν. ἐπιβάλλοντες εἰς τὸν Παθυρίτην διεπεμψάμεθα τοὺς παρʼ ἡμῶν
r.7    εἰς τὰς τοπαρχίας σχεθησομένους τῆς εἰσαγωγῆς τῶν ὀφειλομένων πρός τε τὴν σιτικὴν
r.8    μίσθωσιν καὶ τὴν ἀργυρικὴν πρόσοδον, καὶ ἐπὶ τῆς συνσταθείσης πρακτορείας ἐν τοῖς
r.9    Μεμνονείοις σημανθέντος ὑπάρχειν τόπους περιειλημμένους εἰς φυτείαν φοινίκων
r.10   καὶ μεταπεμψάμενος Τοτοῆν τὸν κωμογραμματέα καὶ ἐπελθόντες ἐπὶ τὸν Σενποήριος
r.11   τῆς Ὀννώφριος τόπον καὶ ἐγμετρήσαντες [ἐ]γβῆναι πήχεις β, καὶ ταύτην μεταπεμψάμενοι
r.12   πειθανάγκης προσαχθείσης περὶ τοῦ καθήκοντος προστίμου ὡς τῆς ἀρούρας διὰ τὸ παρειληφέναι
r.13   ἀπὸ χέρσου ταλάντων ι τὰς συναγομένας χαλκοῦ Ασ καὶ ταύτης ἐπιδεξαμένης, κατακολουθήσας καὶ δεξάμενος ἐπὶ τῆς ἐν Ἑρμώνθει τραπέζης, συνυπογράφοντος Φίβιος τοῦ βασιλικοῦ γραμματέως τοῦ δὲ τοπογραμματέως
r.14   ἐντάσσοντος διὰ τῆς ἑαυτοῦ ὑπογραφῆς τά τε μέτρα καὶ τὰς γειτνίας καὶ προσδιασαφοῦντος μηδὲν
r.15   ἐν τούτοις ἠγνοῆσθαι, τὰς τοῦ χαλκοῦ πρὸς ἀργύριον Ασ ἀνάφερʼ ἐν λήμματι εἰς τὸ πρόστιμον εἰς τὰ ἀναγεγραμμένα
r.16   ὑπὸ τῶν παρʼ ἡμῶν ὡς κα[θ]ήκει, ἐφʼ ὧι ταξαμένη ἕξει ἐν φυτείαι τὸν τόπον φοίνιξι οὐδένα λόγον
r.17   συνισταμένη πρὸς ἡμᾶς περὶ οὐδενὸς ἁπλῶς. προσκόμισαι δὲ καὶ τά καθήκοντα τέλη διπλᾶ
r.18   καὶ εἴ τι ἄλλο καθήκει.
r.19   ἔρρωσο. ἔτους ϛ Χοίαχ ϛ.
r.20   δέξαι τὰς τοῦ χαλκοῦ πρὸς ἀργύριον χιλίας διακοσίας, γίνονται Ασ, καὶ εἴ τι ἄλλο καθήκει. ἔτους ϛ Χοίαχ ϛ.
r.21   Φῖβις, ἐὰν ὁ τοπογραμματεὺς ὑπογράφῃ ταῦθʼ οὕτως ἔχει[ν] καὶ μηθὲν ἠγνοῆσθαι καὶ ἐντάξῃ τά τε μέτρα καὶ
r.22   τὰς γειτνίας, δέξαι τὰ[ς] τοῦ χαλκοῦ πρὸς ἀργύριον χιλίας διακοσίας, γίνονται Ασ, καὶ τὰ ἄλλα τὰ προσδιαγραφόμενα. ἔτους ϛ Χοίαχ ϛ.
r.23   Παμώνθης, δέξαι παρὰ τῆς Σενποήριος τιμὴν τῶν
r.24   δηλουμένων τὰς τοῦ χαλκοῦ πρὸς ἀργύριον δραχμὰς χιλίας διακοσίας,
r.25   γίνεται χαλκοῦ Ασ, καὶ τὰ ἄλλα τὰ καθήκοντα· εἶναι δὲ τὰς γειτνίας
r.26   ἐξ ὧν ἀνενεγκεῖν Τοτοῆν τὸν κωμογραμματέα νότου οἰκίαι
r.27   α[ὐ]τῆς Σενποήριος βορρᾶ περίστασις τοῦ φρουρίου ἀπηλιωτοῦ οἰκίαι
r.28   Ἁ … τος λιβὸς ῥύμη.
r.29   ἔτους ϛ Χοίαχ ϛ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 6, Choiach 8. There has been paid to the bank in Hermonthis, over which Dionysios (presides), to the private account of the kings,
2     according to the order of Hermias, the one in charge of the revenues, and of Phibis the royal scribe, of which
3     the copy is appended below: Senpoeris (daughter) of Onnophris, as fine for a palm-grove of 2 cubits, of copper
4     1,200 (drachmas); dues 180.
5     Dionysios the banker.
6     Hermias to Dionysios, greeting. Assigning (men) to the Pathyrite, we dispatched those of our staff
7     to the toparchies, who are to be detained for the collection of the things owed, both for the grain
8     rent and the money revenue, and at the established collectorship in the
9     Memnoneia, it being indicated that there exist places enclosed for the planting of date-palms,
10    and having summoned Totoes the village-scribe and having gone to the place of Senpoeris,
11    (daughter) of Onnophris, and having measured out (it) to amount to 2 cubits, and having summoned this woman,
12    compulsion having been applied concerning the fine due, as for the aroura, because she had taken over (it)
13    from waste-land at 10 talents, the copper coming to a total of 1,200 (drachmas), and she having accepted this, following through and having received (it) at the bank in Hermonthis, with Phibis the royal scribe co-subscribing, and the topogrammateus
14    entering through his own subscription both the measurements and the neighboring boundaries and further declaring that nothing
15    in these matters has been overlooked, the (sum) of the copper at the silver-rate, 1,200 (drachmas), carry it in the receipts toward the fine, into the things registered
16    by our staff as is fitting, on the condition that, having paid it, she shall keep the place in planting with palms, having no dispute
17    set up against us about anything whatsoever. And bring also the proper dues, double,
18    and if anything else is fitting.
19    Farewell. Year 6, Choiach 6.
20    Receive the (sum) of copper at the silver-rate, one thousand two hundred, total 1,200 (drachmas), and if anything else is fitting. Year 6, Choiach 6.
21    Phibis, if the topogrammateus subscribes that these things are so and that nothing has been overlooked, and enters both the measurements and
22    the neighboring boundaries, receive th[e] (sum) of copper at the silver-rate, one thousand two hundred, total 1,200 (drachmas), and the other things assessed in addition. Year 6, Choiach 6.
23    Pamonthes, receive from Senpoeris the price of the
24    things declared, the (sum) of copper at the silver-rate, one thousand two hundred drachmas,
25    total: copper 1,200 (drachmas), and the other things due; and the neighboring boundaries are
26    those which Totoes the village-scribe reported: on the south, the house
27    of Senpoeris herself; on the north, the surrounding (wall) of the fort; on the east, the house
28    of Ha…tos; on the west, a street.
29    Year 6, Choiach 6.
