[META]
id:       P.ANT 1.42
label:    P.ANT 1.42
name:     Contract — Lenaiu (Antinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     557 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Lenaiu (Antinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Lenaiu (Antinoites) (557 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Kauf — Wein
tm:       17194
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.ant;1;42
lat:      27.8663270586
lon:      30.9237266562

[GREEK]
r.1    χμγ
r.2    [β]ασιλεί[ας το]ῦ θειοτάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαυίου Ἰουστινιανοῦ τοῦ αἰωνίου
r.3    Αὐγούστ[ου καὶ] Αὐτοκράτορος ἔτους εἰκοστοῦ τριακὰς ἐν ἔτει μετὰ τὴν
r.4    ὑπατεί[αν ][Φλ]αυίου Βασιλείου τοῦ ἐνδοξοτάτου Θὼθ κθ ἕκτης ἰνδικτίονος·
r.5    Αὐρήλιος Πειηυοῦτος ἐκ πατρὸς Ἀπολλῶτος μητρὸς Θέκλας
r.6    με[τʼ] ἐγγυητοῦ τοῦ ἐγγυωμένου πρὸς πᾶσαν πίστιν καὶ ἀπόδοσιν
r.7    ὑποκειμ[ένη]ν σοι εἰς τοῦτο τὸ χρέος ἐμοῦ Αὐρηλίου Πέτρου
r.8    ἐκ πατρὸς Ψᾶτος μητρὸς Θερμουθίας γεωργοὶ ὁρμώμενοι ἀπὸ
r.9    κώμης Ληναίου τοῦ Ἀντινοίτου νομοῦ τὰ νῦν διάγοντες ἐνταῦθα ἐπὶ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ληναίου Αὐρηλίῳ Ἰωσηφίῳ υἱῷ Σουροῦτος Ἰουδαίῳ τὴν θρησκείαν ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ληναίου
r.10   τοῦ αὐτοῦ Ἀντινοίτου νομοῦ χαίρειν· ὁμολογῶ ἐγὼ ὁ προγεγραμμένος Πειηῦτος μετʼ ἐγγυητοῦ Πέτρου διὰ ταύτης μου τῆς
r.11   ἐγγράφου ἀσφαλείας ἐσχηκέναι καὶ πεπληρῶσθαι παρά σου τῆς
r.12   τελείας καὶ ἀξίας τιμῆς οἴνου νέου καλ[λ]ίσ[του] καὶ εὐαρέστου μικρὰ
r.13   ἀγγείων ἑκατὸν εἴκοσι ἓν ἥμισυ ἀπὸ ξεστῶν πέντε Ἰουδαϊκῶν
r.14   ἑκάστου μικροῦ γίνεται οἴνου μικροῦ ἀγγεῖα σκα 𐅵 ἀπὸ ξεστῶν ε καὶ ταῦτα ἑτοίμως ἔχω παρασχεῖν σοι τῷ καιρῷ τῶν τρυγῶν τῷ Μεσορὴ μηνὶ τῆς
r.15   παρούσης σὺν θεῷ εἰσιούσης καρπῶν ἑβδόμης ἰνδικτίονος
r.16   καὶ τὸν ναυ … ης εὑρεθησόμενον ὄξος ἢ ἀποίητον ἢ ὀξ[ιζ]όμενον
r.17   ἐκ τῶν αὐτῶν οἴνου ἕως Τῦβι καὶ αὐτοῦ μηνὸς τῆς αὐτῆς
r.18   ἰνδικτίονος [ἀ]λλαττομένων σοι παρὰ ἐμοῦ ἐπὶ καλῷ καὶ ἐπὶ βελτίονι οἴνῳ·
r.19   καὶ ἀποκαταστήσομεν αὐτῷ τὸν οἶνον ἕως ἀποκαθειστα εἰς τὰ[ς]
r.20   θύρας τῆς οἰκίας τῆς κώμης ἰδίοις μου ἀναλώμασι καὶ ναύλῳ
r.21   δίχα πάσης ὑπερθέσεως καὶ ἀντιλογίας· παρελθούσης δὲ ἐν τῷ
r.22   αὐτῷ καιρ[ῷ] εἰ μὴ ἀποδοίην τὸν αὐτὸν οἶνον ἑτοίμως ἔχω
r.23   παρασχεῖν σοι ὑπὲρ τῆς τούτων τιμῆς χρύσου νομισμάτια
r.24   πέντε ἐργῷ παρʼ αὐτὰ καὶ ὑπαρχόντων ἡμῖν ὑποκειμένων σοι εἰς τοῦτο τὸ χρέος
r.25   καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης· τὸ γραμματεῖον τοῦτο κύριον καὶ βέβαιον καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς
r.26   ὡμολόγησα· Αὐρήλιος Πεηῦτος μετʼ ἐγγυητοῦ Πέτρου οἱ προκείμενοι στοίχει μοι
r.27   πάντα ὡς πρόκειται Αὐρήλιος Κυριακὸς νομικὸς ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα
r.28   ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος. Φλαύιος Στέφανος Κύρου
r.29   μαρτυρῶ τὸ γραμματεῖον ἀκούσας παρὰ
r.30   τοῦ θεμένου. Φοιβάμων Πόλλων διάκονος
r.31   μαρτυρῶ τὸ γραμματεῖον ἀκούσας παρὰ
r.32   τοῦ θ[ε]μένου.
r.33   διʼ ἐμοῦ Κυριακοῦ ἐγράφη.
r.34   γραμματεῖον Πεηυοῦτος Ἀπολλῶτος μετʼ ἐγγυητοῦ Πέτρου
r.35   ἀπὸ κώμης Ληναίου δια … η …
r.36   … ελ … ιτ α

[TRANSLATION]
1     Christ, Mary, (born of) God (chmg).
2     [In the rei]gn [of] our most divine master Flavius Justinianus the eternal
3     Augustus [and] Imperator, in the twentieth year, the thirtieth (day), in the year after the
4     consulsh[ip] [of Fl]avius Basilius the most glorious, Thoth 29, of the sixth indiction:
5     Aurelius Peieyous, of (his) father Apollos, mother Thekla,
6     wi[th] a guarantor who guarantees for all good faith and repayment,
7     bound to you for this debt, namely me Aurelius Petros,
8     of (my) father Psas, mother Thermouthia, farmers, hailing from
9     the village of Lenaios of the Antinoite nome, now living here at the same village of Lenaios, to Aurelius Josephios son of Sourous, Jewish in religion, from the same village of Lenaios
10    of the same Antinoite nome, greeting: I, the aforesaid Peieyous, acknowledge, with my guarantor Petros, through this my
11    written security, that I have received and been paid in full from you the
12    full and worthy price of new wine, finest and most pleasing, of small
13    vessels one hundred twenty-one and a half, of five Jewish xestai
14    each small (vessel); making of small wine 121½ small vessels of five xestai (each); and these I am ready to provide to you at the time of the vintage, in the month Mesore of the
15    present, God willing, incoming seventh indiction of crops,
16    and the … sour-wine (vinegar) to be found, either unworked or turning sour
17    from the same wine, until Tybi and that month itself of the same
18    indiction, being exchanged for you by me for good and better wine;
19    and we shall restore to him the wine until it is restored to the
20    doors of the house of the village, at my own expense and freight-charge,
21    without any postponement or contradiction; and the
22    same time having passed, if I do not repay the same wine, I am ready
23    to provide to you, for the value of these, of gold solidi
24    five, by deed forthwith, our belongings being pledged to you for this debt
25    as if by judgment; this bond is valid and secure, and on being formally questioned
26    I acknowledged it. Aurelius Peeyous with (my) guarantor Petros, the aforesaid, all is agreeable to me
27    as is set out above. Aurelius Kyriakos, notary, being requested, wrote
28    on his behalf, he not knowing letters. Flavius Stephanos son of Kyros,
29    I bear witness to the bond, having heard from
30    the one making it. Phoibamon Pollon, deacon,
31    I bear witness to the bond, having heard from
32    the one making it.
33    Through me, Kyriakos, it was written.
34    Bond of Peieyous son of Apollos, with (his) guarantor Petros,
35    from the village of Lenaios, through … e …
36    … el … it 1
