[META]
id:       P.BABATHA 21
label:    P.BABATHA 21
name:     Contract — Maoza (Arabia)
genre:    contracts
date:     130 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Maoza (Arabia)
held:     Jerusalem
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Maoza (Arabia) (130 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Ernte (Datteln) — Erwerb
tm:       23501
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.babatha;;21
lat:      31.409891
lon:      35.132746

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου Αὐτοκράτορος Τραιανοῦ Ἁδριανοῦ
r.2    Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ, ἐπὶ ὑπάτων Μ[άρ]κου Φλαουίου Ἄπρου καὶ
r.3    Κοείντου Φαβίου Κατυλλίνου πρὸ τριῶν εἰδῶν Σεπτεμβρίων,
r.4    κατὰ τὸ[ν] ἀριθμὸν τῆς νέας ἐπαρχίας Ἀραβίας ἔτους πέμπτου καὶ
r.5    εἰκοστοῦ Γορπιαίου τετάρτῃ καὶ εἰκάδι, ἐν Μαωζᾳ περιμέτρῳ
r.6    Ζοορων, Σίμων Ἰησούου Ἀνα[νίου] Βαβαθᾳ Σίμωνος, ἀμφότεροι
r.7    οἰκοῦντες ἐν Μαωζᾳ, χαίρειν· ὁμολογῶ ἠγορακέναι παρά
r.8    σου καρπίαν φοινικῶνος κήπων Ἰούδου Χθουσίωνος
r.9    ἀνδρός σου ἀπογενομένου ἐν Μαωζᾳ λεγόμεναι γανναθ
r.10   Φερωρα καὶ γανναθ Νικαρκος καὶ ἡ τρίτη λεγομένη τοῦ
r.11   Μολχαίου, ἃ κατέχεις, ὡς λέγεις, ἀντὶ τῆς σῆς προικὸς καὶ
r.12   ὀφειλῆς. εἰς τὸν προγεγραμμένον ἐνιαυτὸν τελέσω σοι
r.13   εἰς τοὺς αὐτοὺς κήπους πατητοῦ πρώτου καὶ δευτέρου
r.14   τάλαντα τεσσαράκοντα δύο καὶ συροῦ καὶ νααρου κόρους δύο σάτα πέντε , στάνων σοι αὐτὰ ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ
r.15   σου ζυγῷ Μαωζας ὁμοίως μετρῶν σοι ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ
r.16   σου μέτρῳ Μα[ω]ζας διὰ ἐγγύου καὶ ἀναδόχου Σαμμοῦος Μαναήου τῆς αὐτῆς Μαωζας. καὶ εἴ τι ἂν περισσευθῇ εἰς τοὺς προγεγραμμένους κήπους, φοίνικα
r.17   λήψομαι εἰς ἐμαυτὸν ἀντὶ τῶν ἐμῶν κόπων καὶ ἀναλωμάτων. ἐὰν δὲ μὴ ἀπαρτίσω σοι τὸν προγεγραμμένον φοίνικα τῷ καιρῷ τῶν ψυγμῶν, δώσω σοι ἑνὶ ἑκάστῳ ταλάντῳ δηνάρια δύο καὶ συρίου καὶ νααρου μέλαναν μίαν . ἔκ τε ἐμοῦ καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων μου
r.18   ἢ παρὰ τοῦ ἐγγύου μου, παρʼ οὗ ἂν βουλη[θῇ] ὁ πράσσων ἤτε διʼ αὐτοῦ ἢ ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ, ἔσται ἡ πρᾶξις αὐτοῦ κυρία πανταχοῦ, πίστεως ἐπηρωτημένης καὶ ἀνθωμολογημένης.
r.19   ἐγράφη διὰ Γερμανοῦ λιβραρίου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the fourteenth year of Imperator Trajan Hadrian
2     Caesar Augustus, in the consulship of M[ar]cus Flavius Aper and
3     Quintus Fabius Catullinus, three days before the Ides of September,
4     according to the reckoning of the new province of Arabia in the twenty-
5     fifth year, on the twenty-fourth of Gorpiaios, in Maoza in the district
6     of Zoora, Simon son of Jesus son of Ana[nias] to Babatha daughter of Simon, both
7     dwelling in Maoza, greeting. I acknowledge that I have bought from
8     you the fruit-crop of the date-orchard of the gardens of Judah son of Chthousion
9     your husband, deceased, in Maoza, called gannath
10    Pherora and gannath Nikarkos and the third called (the orchard) of the
11    Molchaios, which you hold, as you say, in lieu of your dowry and
12    debt. For the aforesaid year I shall pay you
13    into the same gardens, of pressed (dates) of the first and second (quality),
14    forty-two talents, and of "splits" and "naaru" two koroi (and) five sata, weighing them out to you in your house
15    by the weight of Maoza, likewise measuring out to you in your house
16    by the measure of Maoza, through the surety and guarantor Sammouos son of Manaes of the same Maoza. And if anything more should accrue in the aforesaid gardens, the dates
17    I shall take for myself in return for my labors and expenses. But if I do not deliver to you the aforesaid dates at the time of the dryings, I shall give you, for each one talent, two denarii, and of "syrian" and "naaru" one "melaina." Both from me and from my belongings,
18    or from my surety, from whichever the creditor may wish, whether through him or on his behalf, his right of execution shall be valid everywhere, the pledge having been asked and acknowledged in return.
19    Written through Germanus, librarius.
