[META]
id:       P.BERL.ZILL 7
label:    P.BERL.ZILL 7
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     574 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (574 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Antrag — Pacht — Bewässerungsanlage — Land
tm:       17287
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.berl.zill;;7
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλείας τοῦ θειοτάτου καὶ εὐσεβεστάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου
r.2    μεγίστου εὐεργέτου Φλαυίου Ἰουστίνου τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου καὶ Αὐτοκράτορος
r.3    ἔτους θ, ὑπατείας τῆς αὐτῶν γαληνότητος τὸ η, Μεσορὴ ιη ἰνδικτίωνος ζ.
r.4    Φλαουίῳ Φιλοξένῳ τῷ εὐδοκιμωτάτῳ ταχυγράφῳ τῆς ἡγεμονικῆς
r.5    τάξεως ταύτης τῆς Ἀρκάδων ἐπαρχίας, υἱῷ τοῦ τῆς μακαρίας
r.6    μνήμης Ἱερακίου, ἀπὸ ταύτης τῆς Νέας Ἰουστίνου πόλεως,
r.7    Αὐρήλιος Ψάως, υἱὸς Πραοῦτος, γενομένου πρεσβυτέρου μητρὸς Ματρώνας
r.8    ὁρμώμενος ἀπὸ κώμης Κῶς τοῦ Ἡρακλεουπολιτῶν νομοῦ,
r.9    χαίρειν. ἑκουσίως ἐπιδέχομαι μισθώσασθαι ἀπὸ τοῦ εἰσιόντος
r.10   ἔτους σνα σκ τῆς σὺν θεῷ ὀγδόης ἰνδικτίωνος κατασπορᾶς δὲ καὶ
r.11   συλλογῆς καρπῶν τῆς προσελαυνούσης ἐνάτης ἐπινεμήσεως,
r.12   τὸ διαφέρον τῇ σῇ εὐδοκιμήσει ὁλόκληρον μηχανὴν καλουμένην
r.13   Ἀκεεῖς, ἐκ βορρᾶ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης ἐξηρτισμένην πάσῃ
r.14   ξυλικῇ ἐξαρτίᾳ καὶ σιδηρώμασιν, μετὰ καὶ τοῦ ἐπικειμένου
r.15   ἐν αὐτῇ λάκκου καὶ ὑδρεύματος καὶ κυκλευτηρίου καὶ μηχανικῶν ὀργάνων
r.16   καὶ φυτῶν παντοίων καὶ παντὸς ἑτέρου δικαίου ταύτης καὶ
r.17   τῶν συνγεωργουμένων καὶ ὑποστελλουσῶν αὐτῇ μηχανῇ ἀρουρῶν
r.18   δώδεκα ἢ ὅσαι πλείους ἐὰν ὦσιν, εἰς σπορὰν ὧν ἐὰν αἱρῶμαι γενημάτων,
r.19   καὶ τελέσω αὐτῇ ὑπὲρ φόρου ταύτης καθʼ ἕκαστον ἐνιαυτὸν ἐπί τε
r.20   νειλοβρόχου καὶ ἀβρόχου, σίτου ἀπὸ καλοῦ γενήματος κεκοσκινευμένου
r.21   ἀρτάβας τεσσεράκοντα μέτρῳ αὐτῆς, καὶ λόγῳ ἀργυρικοῦ χρυσοῦ
r.22   νομίσματα δύο. ὁμολογῶ ἐσχηκέναι παρʼ αὐτῆς ἐντεῦθεν ἤδη λόγῳ προχρείας
r.23   χρυσοῦ νόμισμα α, δώσω δὲ καὶ τὰ ἔκτακτα πάντα καὶ τὰς κατὰ καιρὸν γεουχικὰς
r.24   ὑπηρεσίας πάσας, καὶ τὰ ἑορτικὰ καὶ τὰ ἀναλώματα τοῦ καιροῦ τῶν
r.25   φόρων, τουτέστιν οἴνου λαγήνιον ἓν καὶ δελφάκιον ἕν. ποιοῦμαι
r.26   καὶ τὴν ἀναβολὴν τῶν ναυβίων. τήν δε νομὴν τῶν προειρημένων πάντων
r.27   πραγμάτων ἄτρωτον, ἀβλαβῆ φυλάξω, καὶ παραδώσω αὐτῇ ὁπόταν βουληθείη
r.28   ὡς καὶ παρείληφα. κυρία ἡ μίσθωσις ἁπλῆ γραφεῖσα, καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα . Αὐρήλιος
r.29   Ψάως, υἱὸς Πραοῦτος, ὁ προγεγραμμένος. στοιχεῖ μοι αὕτη ἡ μίσθωσις
r.30   καὶ ἀποδώσω τὸν προγεγραμμένον φόρον ὡς πρόκειται. Δαμιανὸς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἀγραμμάτου
r.31   ὄντος.
r.32   μίσθωσις Ψάω υἱοῦ Πραοῦτος ἀπὸ κώμης Κῶς ὁλοκλήρου μηχανῆς καλουμένης Ἀκεεῖς … φόρου
r.33   σίτου ἀρταβῶν μ χρυσοῦ νομισμάτων β …

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of our most divine and most pious master,
2     greatest benefactor, Flavius Justinus the eternal Augustus and Imperator,
3     in the 9th year, in the 8th consulship of their Serenity, Mesore 18, of the 7th indiction.
4     To Flavius Philoxenos, the most esteemed shorthand-writer (tachygraphos) of this governor's
5     office of the province of Arcadia, son of Hierakios of blessed
6     memory, from this New City of Justinus,
7     Aurelius Psaios, son of Praous, who was presbyter, of his mother Matrona,
8     originating from the village of Kos of the Herakleopolite nome,
9     greetings. Of my own free will I undertake to lease, from the coming
10    year 251, the 220th(?), of the eighth indiction, with God, on the seeding and
11    gathering of the crops of the approaching ninth indiction,
12    the whole water-machine (mechane) called
13    Akeeis, belonging to your Esteemedness, north of the same village, fitted with all
14    wooden equipment and iron parts, together also with the cistern set
15    upon it and the water-conduit and the rotating-wheel and the mechanical implements
16    and plants of all kinds and every other right of it, and
17    of the arouras farmed-together-with and belonging to that machine,
18    twelve, or however many more there may be, for the sowing of whatever crops I may choose,
19    and I shall pay to it for the rent of it each year, both on
20    Nile-flooded and on unflooded (land), of grain from a good crop, sifted,
21    forty artabas by its measure, and, on account of money-value, of gold
22    two solidi. I acknowledge that I have received from her hereby already, on account of an advance,
23    one gold solidus; and I shall give also all the extraordinary dues and the seasonal landlord's
24    services, all of them, and the festal payments and the expenditures of the season of the
25    rents, that is, one jar of wine and one piglet. I shall make
26    also the embankment-work (raising) of the naubia. And the use of all the aforesaid
27    matters I shall keep unimpaired and unharmed, and I shall hand it over to her whenever she should wish,
28    just as I also received it. Valid is this lease, written in single copy, and on being formally questioned I acknowledged. Aurelius
29    Psaios, son of Praous, the aforewritten. This lease is agreeable to me
30    and I shall pay the aforewritten rent as stated above. I, Damianos, wrote on his behalf, he being illiterate,
31    being (so).
32    Lease of Psaios son of Praous, from the village of Kos, of the whole water-machine called Akeeis … of rent
33    of grain, 40 artabas, of gold, 2 solidi …
