[META]
id:       P.BERL.FRISK 4
label:    P.BERL.FRISK 4
name:     Petition — unbekannt
genre:    petitions
date:     301 CE – 500 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from unbekannt (301 CE – 500 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Anzeige — Überfall
tm:       32880
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.berl.frisk;;4
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    θενδετ …
r.2    ἵνα μὴ θάτερον εἴπῳ, ἅπανθʼ ὁμοῦ τιμῆι περιβαλόντα τὴν πι …
r.3    το … ἀνα τεσσαρ … ἔτυχεν ἀλλʼ ἀπορήσας τῶν συνεργούντων
r.4    αὐτῷ ἀγοραίων τε καὶ τῶν … οτας κωλύσαντα …
r.5    τὴν προτέραν διοίκησιν ἀποδεχομένους καὶ αἰσθομένους τὴν στάσιν ἐκ τίνος ἐγήγερται, τοὺς ἑαυτοῦ συνγενεῖς συνάξας ἐπῆλθεν. τούτων δὲ
r.6    συναχθέντων οἵτινες μὲν ἀνθρωπίνῳ λογισμῷ κεκόσμηνται οἶδʼ ὅτι οὖν
r.7    ἀηδὲς ἐποίησαν, Ἡρακλέων δέ τις Ἀμαζονίου παρόμοιος ὢν τούτῳ, ἴσως
r.8    τὰ αὐτὰ φανταζόμενος, ἀταξίᾳ χαίρων, ἔτυψεν ἄφνω με, ὃν καὶ ἀνασταλῆναι καὶ δίκην δοῦναι ἀξιῶν μαρτύρομαι πρὸς τὸ δύνασθαί με μετʼ ἐλευθερίας
r.9    καὶ ἀδείας τὴν δωρηθεῖσαν ἡμῖν ἐκ θείου νεύματος [ ] ἀμέμπτως ἐκτελέσαι,
r.10   ἧς καὶ τὸν χρόνον ἀναγκαῖον καὶ οὐκ ἀκίνδυνον μὴ πληρῶσαί με, φθόνου
r.11   τοῦ βεβαρημένου μὴ ἰσχύοντος πρὸς τοσοῦτον νεῦμα θεῖον. ἄπειρος γὰρ
r.12   … εἰ καὶ τοσοῦτον χρημάτων πλοῦτον περιβέβληται
r.13   … ἐπικουρίας πα καὶ ἐπιτιμήσεως καὶ τοῖς
r.14   ἡμετέροις πολίταις τὰ αὐτὰ πάλιν ἐνδείξασθαι. τῆς γὰρ ἐμῆς ἐπιεικίας μάρτυρες καὶ τῆς ἡμετέρας πόλεως δημόται, [μ]άρτυρες δὲ καὶ πολιτευόμενοι τῆς ἐφόδου. τηρήσω δὲ ἐμαυτῷ καιρῷ τῆς δίκης ἕτερα ἐγκλήματα τούτῳ προσάψαι,
r.15   ἐφʼ οἷς οὐκ ἂν αὐτῷ πρὸς τιμωρίαν ἀρκέσει κεφαλὴ μία. καὶ σιωπήσω
r.16   μὴ χρυσῷ πάλιν τοὺς τῶν τοιούτων ἐγκλημάτων ἐλέγχους διαφθείρας
r.17   ἑαυτὸν ἐλευθερώσῃ. ταῦτα δὲ ἅπαντʼ ἀσφαλισάμενος πρῶτον καὶ δεύτερον εὔχομαι
r.18   π[έρα]ς εὑρεῖν ἐν τῷ ἀχράντῳ εὐφημιζομένῳ δ[ι]κ[αστ]ηρίῳ οὐκ ὀκνη… ιδε … ον δικαστήριον ἀποδεδωκεν … [ γ]ένοιτο τοῦτο
r.19   … λαλονοιανομοις ἐπικουρους … ἐξελθεῖν … κατὰ τῶν
r.20   ἀτόλμητα τολμώντων ὑπὲρ πόλεως καὶ χώρας ἀγωνιζομ … ἐξορκίζω δὲ τὴν θείαν καὶ οὐρανίαν τύχην τῶν τ … τον …
r.21   σκρείβα κα … ρισια τὸ ταῦ[τα ] … μένους ευ … ητου
r.22   ε … κυριο …
r.23   ἀ[σ]φάλειαν …
r.24   συν … σεν λειπεῖν τῶν δικαι …

[TRANSLATION]
1     thendet …
2     so that I may not say the other thing — that he, having surrounded everything together at a price, the pi…
3     to… up four… happened, but being at a loss for those who worked together
4     with him, both of the market-people and of the … having hindered …
5     accepting the former administration and perceiving from what source the sedition had been stirred up, he gathered his own kinsmen and attacked. And when these
6     had been gathered, those who are adorned with human reason, I know, did
7     an unpleasant thing; but a certain Herakleon, son of Amazonios, being similar to this man, perhaps
8     imagining the same things, rejoicing in disorder, struck me suddenly, whom I, demanding that he both be restrained and pay the penalty, I call to witness, so that I may be able, with freedom
9     and security, to carry out blamelessly that which has been granted to us by the divine assent [ ],
10    the time of which it is both necessary and not without danger that I should not fulfil, since the envy
11    of the burdened man does not prevail against so great a divine assent. For inexperienced …
12    … even if he has been clothed in so great a wealth of money
13    … of aid and of rebuke, and to
14    our fellow-citizens to display the same things again. For of my own fairness there are witnesses, both the commons of our city, and witnesses too are the councillors, of the assault. But I shall keep for myself, at the time of the trial, to attach other charges to this man,
15    for which one head will not suffice him for punishment. And I shall keep silent,
16    lest again with gold, having destroyed the proofs of such charges,
17    he free himself. But having secured all these things first and second, I pray
18    to find an end in the undefiled court that is well spoken of, not shrink… ide… court has rendered … may this come to pass
19    … laws helpers … to go out … against the
20    those who dare unthinkable things, contending on behalf of city and country … and I adjure the divine and heavenly fortune of the …
21    scriba ka…risia that these things … menous eu…etou
22    e…lord…
23    security …
24    syn…sen to leave of the just …
