[META]
id:       P.BERL.ZILL 5
label:    P.BERL.ZILL 5
name:     Contract — Hermopolis (Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     417 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis (Ägypten)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Hermopolis (Ägypten) (417 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Angebot — Pacht — Haus — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       17285
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.berl.zill;;5
lat:      31.037798
lon:      31.379406

[GREEK]
r.1    μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν τοῦ δεσπότου ἡμῶν
r.2    Θεοδοσίου τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου τὸ ζ καὶ Φλαυίου
r.3    Παλλαδίου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἐπάρχου τοῦ ἱεροῦ πραιτωρίου
r.4    τῆς Ἰταλίας Παῦνι κα.
r.5    κληρονόμοις Σερή[νου] γενομένου σχ[ο]λαστικοῦ τάξεως
r.6    ἡγεμο[νί]ας Θ[ηβαίδος]
r.7    παρὰ Αὐρηλίας Εἰ[ρήν]ης Σερήνου μητρὸς Θατρῆτος ἀπὸ Ἑρμουπόλεως τῆς λαμπροτάτης. βούλομαι ἑκουσίως
r.8    καὶ αὐθαιρέτως μισθώσασθαι παρ’ ὑμῶν ἐφʼ ὃν βούλεσθε χρόνον, λογιζόμενον ἀπὸ τοῦ ἑξῆς μ[ηνὸ]ς Ἐπεὶφ
r.9    τῆς εὐτυχοῦς ἀρχῇ πρώτης νέας ἰνδικτίωνος, ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος ὑμῖν καὶ αἱροῦντος μέρους ὁλοκλήρου οἰκίας τόπους
r.10   δύο ἐν τῇ ἀνωτέρᾳ στέγῃ ἐν τῇ αὐτῇ πόλει ἐπʼ ἀμ[φόδου] πόλεως ἀπηλιώτου, πρὸς οἴκησιν καὶ χρῆσιν
r.11   Λυκαρίου στρατιώτου νουμέρου Μαύρων τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως, ἐνοικίου κατʼ ἔτος ἀργυρίου ταλάντων μυρίων καὶ χιλίων,
r.12   ὅπερ ἐνοίκιον ἀποδώσω ὑμῖν πρὸς λῆξιν ἑκάστου ἔτους ἀνυπερθέτως. καὶ ὁπόταν βουληθῆτε
r.13   ἔχειν, παραδώσω ὑμῖν τοὺς αὐτοὺς τόπους δύο σὺν
r.14   ταῖς ἐφεστώσαις θύραις δυσὶ ὡς παρείληφα, ἐν μηδενὶ καταβλάψασα. ἡ μίσθωσις κυρία καὶ ἐπερωτηθεῖσα
r.15   ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρηλία Εἰρήνη Σερήνου ἡ προειρημένη με[μίσ]θωμαι
r.16   ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Φοιβάμμων ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γράμματα μὴ εἰδυίης
r.17   καὶ διʼ ἐμοῦ ἐγράφη.
r.18   μίσθωσις Εἰρήνης Σερήνου ἀπὸ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως

[TRANSLATION]
1     After the consulship of our master
2     Theodosius the eternal Augustus for the 7th time and of Flavius
3     Palladius the most illustrious prefect of the sacred praetorium
4     of Italy, Pauni 21.
5     To the heirs of Serenus, former advocate (scholasticus) of the office
6     of the prefecture of the Thebaid,
7     from Aurelia Eirene daughter of Serenus, her mother being Thatres, from Hermoupolis the most illustrious. I wish, willingly
8     and of my own choice, to lease from you for whatever time you wish, reckoned from the next month of Epeiph
9     at the fortunate beginning of the first new indiction, from the whole share of the house belonging to you and falling to you, two rooms (places)
10    in the upper storey in the same city, in the eastern city-quarter, for the dwelling and use
11    of Lykarios, soldier of the unit of the Moors of the same city, at a yearly rent of eleven thousand talents of silver,
12    which rent I shall pay to you at the close of each year without delay. And whenever you wish
13    to have (them back), I shall hand over to you the same two rooms together with
14    the two doors set upon them, as I received (them), having damaged (them) in nothing. The lease is valid, and on being formally questioned
15    I gave my assent. I, Aurelia Eirene daughter of Serenus, the aforesaid, have leased
16    as set forth above. I, Aurelius Phoibammon, wrote on her behalf, she not knowing letters,
17    and through me it was written.
18    Lease of Eirene daughter of Serenus, from Hermou polis.
