[META]
id:       P.BERL.LEIHG 1.17
label:    P.BERL.LEIHG 1.17
name:     Documentary papyrus — Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites)
genre:    documents
date:     164 CE – 165 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites) (164 CE – 165 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Deklaration — Zensus — Kopie
tm:       10201
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.berl.leihg;1;17
lat:      29.3149635
lon:      30.8399565

[GREEK]
r.1    ἀντίγραφον ἀπογραφῆς. Ἱέρακι στρατηγῷ Ἀρσινοΐτου Ἡρακλείδου μερίδος καὶ Τιμαγένει βασιλικῷ γραμματεῖ τῆς αὐτῆς μερίδος καὶ Διδύμωι
r.2    τῷ καὶ Πατάλῳ καὶ Πτολεμαίωι γραμματεῦσι μητροπόλεως καὶ ἀμφοδάρχῃ καὶ λαογράφῳ ἀμφόδου Μοήρεως
r.3    παρὰ Ἡρώδου Φιλαδέλφου τοῦ Ἡρώδου μητρὸς Θερμουθαρίου ἀδελφὴ πατρὸς ἀπὸ τῆς μητροπόλεως
r.4    ἀναγραφομένου ἐπʼ ἀμφόδου Μοήρεως. ὑπάρχει τοῖς ἐπιτροπευομένοις ὑπʼ ἐμοῦ Σερήνωι τῷ καὶ Ἑρμείᾳ
r.5    καὶ Ἡρακλείδηι ἀμφοτέροις Δείου τοῦ Ἡρακλείδου ἐπʼ ἀμφόδου Θεσμοφορίου οἰκία, ἐν ᾗ προ[σ]απογράφομαι ἐμαυτὸν καὶ τοὺς ἐμοὺς εἰς τὴν τοῦ διεληλυθότος κγ ἔτους θεοῦ Ἀντωνείνου κατʼ οἰκίαν
r.6    ἀπογραφὴ[ν] ἐπʼ ἀμφόδου Μοήρεως, ἐφʼ οὗ καὶ τῇ τοῦ θ ἔτους θεοῦ Ἀντωνείνου κατʼ οἰκίαν ἀπογραφῇ
r.7    ἀπεγραψάμεθα ἐπὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἀμφόδου Μοήρεως. καί ἐσμεν Ἡρώδης ὁ προγεγραμμένος ἐτῶν λα ἄσημος, καὶ τὸν
r.8    γενόμενόν μοι ἐκ τῆς γενομένης καὶ ἀποπε[π]λεγμένης γυναικός μου οὔσης ὁμοπατρίου καὶ
r.9    ὁμομητρίου ἀδε[λφῆς μ]ου Ζωϊδοῦτος υἱὸν Σαραπίωνα τὸν καὶ Ἑρμία[ν] ἐτῶν η οὐλὴ ὀφρύει ἀριστερᾷ
r.10   μὴ ἀναγεγραμμένον ἐν ἐπιγεγ[εννη]μένοις, καὶ τούτου δουλικὰ σώματα ὠνητὰ τῷ κβ ἔτει θεοῦ Ἀντωνείνου
r.11   Ἀπολλωναρίου Χαιρ[ή]μονος τοῦ Ἥρωνος ἀπὸ ἀμφόδου Μοήρεως Παλαιστρικὴν ἐτῶν λγ
r.12   οὐλὴ γαστροκνημίωνι δεξιᾷ, καὶ ταύ[τ]ης ἔγγονον Ἀμμώνιον ἐτῶν ε ἄσημον μὴ ἀναγεγραμμένον ἐν ἐπιγεγεννημένοις,
r.13   καὶ τοὺς ὁμοπατρίους καὶ ὁμομητρίους μου ἀδελφοὺς Ἰσχυρίωνα ἐτῶν με ἄσημον καὶ Ἀφροδίσιον ἐτῶν λγ ἄσημον,
r.14   καὶ θηλείας Θερμουθάριον ἐτῶν μζ ἄσημον καὶ Ζωϊδοῦν ἐτῶν κθ ἄσημον, καὶ τὴ[ν] τοῦ Ἰσχυρίωνος γυναῖκα
r.15   Δημάριον Διοδώρου τοῦ Πολυδεύκους μητρὸς Σαμβοῦτος ἐτῶν λε, καὶ ἐξ ἀμφοτέρων θυγατέρας Ἑλένην ἐτῶν ιζ καὶ
r.16   Διδύμη[ν] ἐτῶν ιε, καὶ τὴν τοῦ Ἀφροδεισίου γυναῖκα Δημάριον Διοδώρου τοῦ Πολυδεύκους μητρὸς Σαμβοῦτος
r.17   ἐτῶν κϛ, καὶ ἐξ ἀμφοτέρων θυγατέρα Ἑλένην ἐτῶν θ, καὶ Ἡρώδην Πετερμούθεως τοῦ Ἥρωνος μητρὸς Θερμουθαρίου
r.18   τῆς Φιλαδέλφου ἐτῶν ιθ ἀπογεγραμμένον τῇ τοῦ θ ἔτους θεοῦ Ἀντωνείνο[υ] κατʼ οἰκίαν ἀπογραφῇ ἐπʼ ἀμφόδου Μακεδώνων, νυνὶ δὲ
r.19   μετάβασιν ποιούμενον ἐπὶ Μοήρεως. διὸ ἐπιδίδωμι. ἔτους α ὅλων τῶν β Καισάρων Παχὼν ιϛ.
r.20   ἀντίγραφον ὑπογραφῶν. Ἱέραξ στρατηγὸς διὰ Ἁρποχ βοηθοῦ ἔσχον τούτου τὸ ἴσον. κατεχωρίσθη βασιλικῷ τῇ
r.21   αὐτῇ ἡμέρᾳ. κατεχωρίσθη γραμματεῦσι τῆς πόλεως τῇ αὐτῇ ἡμέρᾳ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Copy of a census-return. To Hierax, strategos of the Herakleides division of the Arsinoite nome, and to Timagenes, royal scribe of the same division, and to Didymos
2     also called Patalos, and to Ptolemaios, scribes of the metropolis, and to the amphodarches and the poll-tax registrar of the Moeris quarter,
3     from Herodes Philadelphos son of Herodes, his mother Thermoutharion being his father's sister, from the metropolis,
4     registered in the Moeris quarter. There belongs to those under my guardianship, Serenos also called Hermeias
5     and Herakleides, both sons of Deios son of Herakleides, in the Thesmophorion quarter, a house, in which I additionally register myself and my people for the house-by-house census of the past 23rd year of the deified Antoninus,
6     the registration in the Moeris quarter, on which also, in the house-by-house census of the 9th year of the deified Antoninus,
7     we registered ourselves in the same Moeris quarter. And we are: Herodes the aforewritten, aged 31, without distinguishing marks; and the
8     son born to me from my former and divorced wife, who was my sister of the same father and
9     same mother, Zoidous, namely a son Sarapion also called Hermeias, aged 8, with a scar on the left eyebrow,
10    not recorded among those born later; and of his slave bodies, bought in the 22nd year of the deified Antoninus:
11    Apollonarion daughter of Chairemon son of Heron, from the Moeris quarter, a Palestinian, aged 33,
12    with a scar on the right calf, and her offspring Ammonios, aged 5, without distinguishing marks, not recorded among those born later,
13    and my brothers of the same father and same mother, Ischyrion aged 45 without distinguishing marks, and Aphrodisios aged 33 without distinguishing marks,
14    and the females Thermoutharion aged 47 without distinguishing marks, and Zoidous aged 29 without distinguishing marks, and the wife of Ischyrion,
15    Demarion daughter of Diodoros son of Polydeukes, her mother Sambous, aged 35, and from both of them daughters: Helene aged 17 and
16    Didyme aged 15; and the wife of Aphrodisios, Demarion daughter of Diodoros son of Polydeukes, her mother Sambous,
17    aged 26, and from both of them a daughter Helene aged 9; and Herodes son of Petermouthes son of Heron, his mother being Thermoutharion
18    daughter of Philadelphos, aged 19, registered in the house-by-house census of the 9th year of the deified Antoninus in the Macedonians' quarter, but now
19    transferring to the Moeris quarter. Therefore I submit (this). Year 1 of the two Caesars in all, Pachon 16.
20    Copy of the subscriptions. I, Hierax the strategos, through Harpoch… the assistant, have received a copy of this. It was filed with the royal scribe on the
21    same day. It was filed with the scribes of the city on the same day.
