[META]
id:       P.BREM 37
label:    P.BREM 37
name:     Petition — Hermopolis (?)
genre:    petitions
date:     117 CE – 120 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis (?)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Hermopolis (?) (117 CE – 120 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Prozeß — Mordfall — Forderung nach Vorladung weiterer Pächter
tm:       19621
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.brem;;37
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀπολλωνίωι στρατηγ[ῶι ][Ἀ]πολλ[ων]οπολίτου Ἑπτα[κωμ]ίας
r.2    παρὰ Παχομψάιτος Παρε … καὶ … ύνιο[ς ] … ριος
r.3    καὶ Φαήσιος Ὀρσενούφιος καὶ Ψενταζβῆτος Ψενταζβῆτος
r.4    καὶ Ψενταζβῆτος ἀδελφοῦ γεωργῶν Νήσου πρὸς κώ[μ]ῃ Πτήνει. ἐξ ἐπιστολῆς Φλαυίου Φιλοξένου
r.5    τοῦ κρατίστου ἐπιστρατήγου διὰ ὑπηρέτου
r.6    παρήνγειλας ἡμῖν καταντῆσαι κράτιστον ἡγεμόνα
r.7    εἰς τὴν Μέμφιν ἢ ὅπου ἂν ᾗ χάριν τοῦ ἀνῃρημένου δεκαδάρχου
r.8    πρὸς ὅρμωι Τερύθει τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου. ἐπεὶ οὖν τῶι ἐνεστῶτι ἔτει
r.9    γενομένης ἐνλιπούσης τῆς ἀναβάσεως, ὡς ἥρμοζέ σου τῇ πρὸς τὰ
r.10   κυριακὰ πράγματα ἐπιμελείᾳ, ἐπηνάγκασας ἡμᾶς πλείστην ἄβροχον ἐπαντλῆσαι, ἀναγκαίως διὰ τὴν ἀντισέβειαν, ἵνα μὴ ἐπηρεασθῶμεν,
r.11   μετεμισθώσαμεν τὴν προσπαρακειμένην ἄβροχον τοῖς Ἀνταιοπολιτικοῖς
r.12   ἐδάφεσι γεωργοῖς ἀπὸ κώμης Πτήνεως τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου. ἀξιοῦμεν καὶ περὶ τούτων
r.13   γρ[ά]ψ[αι] τῶι τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου στρατηγῶι Χαιρήμονι, ἵνα ἀκολούθως τῇ γραφείσῃ ἐπιστολ[ῇ] καὶ αὐτοὶ τοῖς ἀπὸ τῆς Τερύθεως συνκατενεχθῶσι ἐπὶ τὸν κράτιστον
r.14   ἡγεμόνα, ἐφʼ οὗ ἐπιδείξομεν μηδὲν τοιοῦτο ἡμῖν ἡμαρτημένον.
r.15   εἰσὶ δὲ διὰ μὲν μιᾶς μισθώσεως Ψενθεμεὺς Πετοσίριος καὶ
r.16   Ὀρσενοῦφις Ο[ὐ]φιέως καὶ Κεφαλᾶς Ὥρου καὶ Ἀντᾶς Πααανούφιος,
r.17   καὶ διʼ ἑτέρας Φατρῆς Ψεννήσιος εἰρηνοφύλαξ Πτήνεως καὶ Πετοσῖρις Ψενοσίριος
r.18   καὶ Αρ … της Πατομτοῦτος καὶ Ψᾶις Ψάιτος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς Πτήνεως,
r.19   καὶ διʼ ἄλλης Ψενοσῖ[ρι]ς Τιθοέους γενόμενος εἰρηνοφύλαξ τῆς αὐτῆς Πτήνεως
r.20   καὶ Ὧρος Πανίσκου καὶ Σοῦλις Ψά[ι]τος ἀρχιφύλαξ τῆς αὐτῆς Πτήνεως
r.21   καὶ διʼ ἄλλης Πατομτῶς Πατετήφιος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς, γίνονται ὀνόματα ιβ

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Apollonios, strategos of the Apollonopolite Heptakomia,
2     from Pachompsais son of Pare-… and …ynis …rios
3     and Phaesis son of Orsenouphis and Psentazbes son of Psentazbes
4     and Psentazbes his brother, cultivators of Nesos near the village of Ptenei. By a letter of Flavius Philoxenos,
5     the most excellent epistrategos, through an attendant,
6     you instructed us to present ourselves before the most excellent prefect
7     at Memphis, or wherever he might be, concerning the murdered decadarch (commander of ten)
8     at the harbour Terythis of the Antaiopolite nome. Since, then, in the present year,
9     the inundation having fallen short, as befitted your
10    care for the imperial affairs, you compelled us to irrigate a very large unwatered (tract), of necessity, on account of the impiety, so that we might not be harassed,
11    we re-leased the adjoining unwatered (land) to the cultivators of the Antaiopolite
12    holdings from the village of Ptenis of the Antaiopolite nome. We request also concerning these matters
13    to write to Chairemon, the strategos of the Antaiopolite nome, so that, in accordance with the letter written, they too, together with those from Terythis, may be brought down before the most excellent
14    prefect, before whom we shall show that no such thing has been done wrong by us.
15    They are, through the one lease: Psenthemeus son of Petosiris and
16    Orsenouphis son of Ouphis and Kephalas son of Horos and Antas son of Paaanouphis,
17    and through another: Phatres son of Psennesis, peace-guardian of Ptenis, and Petosiris son of Psenosiris
18    and Ar…tes son of Patomtous and Psais son of Psais, from the same Ptenis,
19    and through another: Psenosiris son of Tithoes, former peace-guardian of the same Ptenis,
20    and Horos son of Paniskos and Soulis son of Psais, chief-guard of the same Ptenis,
21    and through another: Patomtos son of Patetephis from the same (village); there come to be 12 names.
