[META]
id:       P.CAIR.MASP 1.67026dupl
label:    P.CAIR.MASP 1.67026dupl
name:     Documentary papyrus — Aphrodites Kome? (Antaiopolites)
genre:    documents
date:     551 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome? (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Aphrodites Kome? (Antaiopolites) (551 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Reskript — Kaiser an dux Thebaidos — Erbschaft — Schulden
tm:       18990
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.masp;1;67026dupl
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    [ ] Διόσκορος προσῆλθ[εν ἡμῖ]ν, τὴν μητέρα λέγων τὴν οἰκείαν,
r.2    ἀδιανεμήτων ὄ[ντω]ν μεταξ[ὺ] αὐτῆς τε καὶ Ἀπολλῶ τοῦ αὐτῆς
r.3    ἀδελφοῦ τῶν ἐκ τῶν γονέων αὐτοῖς καταλελειμμένων πραγμάτων,
r.4    καταλῦσαι τὸν βίον ἐπὶ παισὶν τῷ ἱκέτ[ῃ καὶ τ]ῇ αὐτοῦ ἀδελφῇ ἐπὶ νέας
r.5    ἔτι τυγχάνουσιν ἡλικίας, ὑπὸ τὴν τοῦ εἰρημένου θείου φροντίδα
r.6    καταλιποῦσαν τὸν ἱκέτην καὶ τὴν ἀδελφὴν τὴν αὐτοῦ· νῦν δὲ
r.7    τελευτήσαντος τοῦ προειρημένου Ἀπολλῶ, τοὺς Ἰουλιανῷ τῷ ἐνδοξοτάτῳ
r.8    α τοῦτον δὲ πρὸ φανερῶν χρόνων τῆς α[ὐ]τοῦ
r.9    προσήκ[ον]τας ἐπελθεῖν καὶ ἀφελέσθαι πᾶσαν τὴν ὑπʼ ἐκείνου
r.10   [τε]λευτῆς παραδιδόναι Διοσκόρῳ καὶ Ἀ[ν]αστασίᾳ τοῖς ἡμετέροις ἱκέταις τὰ ἁρμόσαντα αὐτοῖς
r.11   [ἐ]κ τῆς μητρῴας κληρονομίας τοῦδε πράγματά τε καὶ ἐπαυξήματα, ὑπὲρ ὧν μέχρι [νῦν]
r.12   συντελοῦσιν το[ὺς δη]μοσίο[υς φό]ρους.
r.13   κ[ατα]λειφθεῖσαν περιουσίαν, φάσκοντας τὸν προειρημένον Ἀπολλῶ
r.14   ὑπεύθυνον αὐτοῖς τελευτῆσαι· καίτοι τῶν μητρῴων τῶν δεομένων
r.15   πραγμάτων ἐν αὐτῇ τυγχανόντων, καὶ τοῖς ἐκείνου χρέεσιν οὐκ ὑποκειμένων.
r.16   ᾔτησέν τε τῆς ἐξ ἡμῶν εἰς τοῦτο βοηθείας τυχεῖν. θεσπίζομεν τοίνυν
r.17   τὴν ἐνδοξότητα τὴν σὴν μέρος ἑκάτερον ἀγαγεῖν, καὶ ἐξετάσαι τὰ παρὰ τοῦ
r.18   ἱκέτου λεγόμενα, καὶ κατὰ τοὺς νόμους αὐτῷ τε καὶ τῇ αὐτοῦ ἀδελφῇ
r.19   τὴν τῶν μητρῴων αὐτῶν πραγμάτων ἀποσῶσαι δεσποτείαν, κατὰ τὴν
r.20   ἁρμόσασαν ἐκείνῃ μοῖραν τῆς τῶν γονέων περιουσίας, μετὰ πάσης
r.21   νομίμου ἐπαυξήσεως, καὶ μὴ συγχωρῆσαι τοῖς ὑπεύθυνον λέγουσιν
r.22   ἔχειν τὴν περιουσίαν τοῦ τῶν ἱκετῶν θείου, συναναλαμβάνειν καὶ
r.23   τὰ ἐκ τῆς μητρὸς τοῖς ἱκέταις ἁρμόσαντα πράγματα, καὶ ἂν γὰρ εἰ μεταξὺ
r.24   αὐτῶν οὐδαμῶς νεμήσεις γεγόνασιν· ἀλλʼ οὖν οὐ παρὰ τοῦτο τὸ μέρος
r.25   τοὺς ἡμῶν δεηθέντας ἀδικεῖσθαι καθʼ οἷον οὖν βουλόμεθα τρόπον,
r.26   ταῦτα δὲ πρὸς πέρας ἄξει τρόποις ἅπασιν ἥ τε σὴ ἐνδοξότης καὶ οἱ μετʼ αὐτήν
r.27   τῆς αὐτῆς ἀρχῆς ἀνθεξόμενοι, καὶ ἡ πειθομένη ὑμ[ῖ]ν τάξις, ποινῆς τριῶν
r.28   χρυσοῦ λιτρῶν ἐπικειμένης κατὰ τῶν ταῦτα παραβαίνειν τολμώντων ἢ παραβαινέσθαι
r.29   συγχωρούντων.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … Dioskoros came to us, telling of his own mother,
2     the property left to them by their parents being undivided between her and Apollos her
3     brother, of the goods left to them by their parents,
4     that she ended her life leaving children, the supplicant and his sister, while still of young
5     age yet, under the guardianship of the said uncle,
6     leaving the supplicant and his own sister; but now,
7     the aforesaid Apollos having died, those belonging to Julianos the most glorious …
8     … and him, before evident times, before his
9     relatives to come upon and take away all that by that man …
10    death, to hand over to Dioskoros and Anastasia, our supplicants, the things appropriate to them
11    from the maternal inheritance of this man — both goods and increases — concerning which up to [now]
12    they pay the public taxes.
13    the property left behind, alleging that the aforesaid Apollos
14    died liable to them; and yet, the maternal goods that were required
15    being in her possession, and not being subject to that man's debts.
16    And he asked to obtain help from us in this matter. We therefore decree
17    that your Excellency bring each party together, and examine the things said by the
18    supplicant, and according to the laws restore to him and to his sister
19    the lordship of their maternal goods, according to the
20    share of the parents' property befitting her, with all
21    lawful increase, and not to permit those who say they hold the property
22    of the supplicants' uncle as liable also to take up
23    the goods belonging to the supplicants from their mother — for even if between
24    them no divisions have at all taken place; yet not for this reason
25    are those who have appealed to us to be wronged, in whatever manner we wish,
26    and these things your Excellency, and those after you
27    holding the same office, and the rank obedient to you, shall bring to fulfillment by all means, a penalty of three
28    pounds of gold being imposed upon those who dare to transgress these things or who
29    consent that they be transgressed.
