[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 2.59251
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 2.59251
name:     Contract — Syrien
genre:    contracts
date:     252 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syrien
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Syrien (252 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Artemidoros an Zenon — Bericht — Reise — Anweisungen — Kauf — Ernte
tm:       896
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;2;59251
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀρτεμίδωρος Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. εἰ ἔρρωσαι, εὖ ἂν ἔχοι· ἔρρωμαι δὲ καὶ ἐγὼ καὶ Ἀπολλώνιος ὑγίαινεν καὶ
r.2    τὰ ἄλλα ἦν κατὰ γνώμην. ὅτε δέ σοι ἔγραφον, παρεγινόμεθα εἰς Σιδῶνα, συμπεπορευμένοι τῆι βασιλίσσηι
r.3    ἕως τῶν ὁρίων, καὶ ὑπελαμβάνομεν ταχέως παρέσεσθαι πρὸς ὑμᾶς. χαριεῖ οὖν μοι σαυτοῦ τε ἐπιμελόμενος
r.4    ἵνα ὑγιαίνηις καὶ ἡμῖν γράφων ἐάν τί σοι βούληι γίνεσθαι ὧν ἡμεῖς δυνάμεθα. καλῶς δʼ ἂν ποιήσαις ἀγοράσας
r.5    ἡμῖν ἵνα ὡς ἂν παραγενώμεθα ἔχωμεν μέλιτος τοῦ βελτίστου μετρητὰς γ καὶ κριθῶν ὥστε εἰς τὰ κτήνη ἀρτάβας χ,
r.6    τὴν δὲ τιμὴν ἀπὸ τοῦ σησάμου καὶ τοῦ κροτῶνος δοὺς εἰς ταῦτα, καὶ τῆς οἰκίας δὲ τῆς ἐν Φιλαδελφείαι
r.7    ἐπιμελόμενος, ἵνα ὡς ἂν παραγενώμεθα καταλάβωμεν αὐτὴν ἐστεγασμένην. καὶ τὰ ζευγάρια δὲ καὶ τὰ ἱερεῖα καὶ τοὺς χῆνας
r.8    [κ]αὶ τὰ λοιπὰ τὰ ἐνταῦθα ὡς ἂν ἐκποιῆι πειρῶ ἐπισκοπεῖν· οὕτως γὰρ ἡμῖν μᾶλλον ἔσται τὰ δέοντα.
r.9    καὶ τὰ γενημάτια δὲ ἵνα τρόπωι τινὶ συγκομισθῆι ἐπιμελές σοι ἔστω. καὶ ἐάν τι δέηι εἰς
r.10   ἀνήλωμα τὸ ἀναγκαῖον δοῦναι, μὴ ὀκνήσηις.
r.11   ἔρρωσο. ἔτους λγ, Περιτίου ἐμβολίμου ϛ.
r.12   [εἰς Φιλ]αδέλφειαν. ἔτους λγ, Φαμενὼθ ϛ.
r.13   Ἀρτεμίδωρος.
r.14   Ζήνωνι.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Artemidoros to Zenon, greeting. If you are well, it would be good; I too am well, and Apollonios was in health and
2     the other things were according to wish. When I was writing to you, we were arriving at Sidon, having traveled together with the queen
3     as far as the borders, and we supposed we would soon come to you. You will gratify me then by taking care of yourself
4     that you be in health, and by writing to us if you wish anything to be done of what we are able. And you would do well to buy
5     for us, so that when we arrive we may have, three metretai of the best honey, and barley for the animals six hundred artabas,
6     giving the price for these from the sesame and the castor-oil plant, and taking care of the house in Philadelphia,
7     so that when we arrive we may find it roofed. And the yokes of oxen and the sacrificial victims and the geese
8     and the rest of the things here, as it works out, try to oversee; for thus our needs will be better provided.
9     And let it be your care that the produce too be somehow gathered in. And if there is need to spend
10    the necessary outlay, do not hesitate.
11    Farewell. Year 33, of the intercalary Peritios, 6th.
12    [To Phil]adelphia. Year 33, Phamenoth 6.
13    Artemidoros.
14    To Zenon.
