[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 2.59160
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 2.59160
name:     Letter — Memphites
genre:    letters
date:     255 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Memphites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Memphites (255 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Nikon an Zenon — Bitte — Unterstützung — Geld — Korn — Öl
tm:       808
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;2;59160
lat:      29.6279197277
lon:      31.2486292477

[GREEK]
r.1    Νίκων Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. εἰ ἔρρωσαι καὶ τὰ λοιπὰ κατὰ νοῦν πράσσεις, εἴ[η] ἄν πολλὴ χάρις τοῖς θεοῖς·
r.2    καὶ ἐγὼ δὲ ὑγίαινον. καλῶς ἂν ποιήσαις γράψας Νικάνορι περὶ τοῦ ἐλαίου οὗ δεδώκαμεν εἰς τὰ
r.3    σώματα, ὅπως ἂν ἡμῖν ἀποδῶι· εἰσὶν δὲ χοεῖς πέντε, καὶ περὶ ὧν σοι πρότερον ἔγραψα, καλῶς ἂν ποιήσαις, ἐάν σοι φαίνηται, ἀποστείλας ἡμῖν, οὐ γὰρ οἶμαί σε ἀγνοιεῖν ὅτι, ἐὰν μή τι παρὰ σοῦ λάβωμεν,
r.4    λιμῶι παραπολοῦμαι, ἕως ἂν εἰδῶ ποῦ γῆς εἰμι, ἐπειδὴ διʼ Ἀπολλώνιον οὐ δυνάμεθʼ ἀνακύψαι, ἀλλὰ συμβαίνει διὰ παντὸς ἡμᾶς περιφόβους εἶναι ὥσπερ τοὺς τὰ μέγιστα ἠδικηκότας.
r.5    ἠξίου δὲ καὶ Μενέμαχος ἡμᾶς πρὸς Ἀπολλώνιον καταπλεῦσαι, δοκιμάζων ὀφθῆναι αὐτῶι,
r.6    καὶ ὅτι διαλέξεται περὶ ἡμῶν ὅπως ἂν πράσσωμέν τι, καὶ ὅτι μάλιστα ἡμῖν ποιήσει, ἔφη,
r.7    ἐὰν αὐτῶι μνησθῶμεν περὶ τοῦ ἐν Φιλαδελφείαι ἔργου. εἰ οὖν δοκιμάζεις καταπλεῦσαί με
r.8    ὅπως ἂν ἐντύχωμεν, γράψον μοι. καὶ ἐάν σοι φαίνηται δοῦναι ἡμῖν σιτάριον ὅπως μὴ τίμιον
r.9    ἀγοράζωμεν, σύνταξον δοθῆναι Ἀγαθίνωι ὅπως ἀποκομίσηι πρὸς ἡμᾶς.
r.10   ἔρρωσο.
r.11   ἔτους λ, Δίου ιη, Ἁθὺρ ιη.
r.12   Νίκων περὶ ἐλαίου.
r.13   Ζήνωνι.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Nikon to Zenon, greetings. If you are well and everything else goes according to your mind, much thanks would be due to the gods;
2     I too was in good health. You would do well to write to Nikanor about the oil which we gave for the
3     slaves, so that he may give it back to us; it is five choes, and concerning the matters about which I wrote you before, you would do well, if it seems good to you, to send (them) to us, for I do not think you are unaware that, unless we receive something from you,
4     I shall perish by famine, until I know where on earth I am, since on account of Apollonios we cannot lift our heads, but it happens that we are continually full of fear like those who have done the greatest wrongs.
5     Menemachos too asked us to sail down to Apollonios, thinking it best to be seen by him,
6     and (saying) that he would speak about us, so that we might fare somewhat, and that, he said, he would do for us most of all,
7     if we should remind him about the work in Philadelphia. If, then, you think it best for me to sail down
8     so that we may meet (him), write to me. And if it seems good to you to give us a little grain so that we may not buy at a high price,
9     order it to be given to Agathinos so that he may convey it to us.
10    Farewell.
11    Year 30, Dios 18, Hathyr 18.
12    Nikon, concerning oil.
13    To Zenon.
