[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 1.59036
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 1.59036
name:     Letter — Karien
genre:    letters
date:     257 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Karien
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Karien (257 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Apollodotos an Charmides — Abschrift — Akte — Schiff — Marine
tm:       696
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;1;59036
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀπολλόδοτος Χαρμίδει χαίρειν· ὑπογέγραφά σοι τῶν πρὸς Ξάνθιππον
r.2    ἐπιστολῶν τὰ ἀντίγραφα. ἐντυχὼν [ο]ὖν αὐτῶι καὶ περὶ τῶν Βυξε δραχμῶν εἴδησον πῶς
r.3    βούλεται οἰκ[ο]νομῆσαι, καὶ, ἐὰν θέληι σοι διαγράψαι, λαβὼν παρʼ αὐτοῦ διάγραψον Μηδείωι
r.4    ὃ ἐδεδώκει Στράτων ὁ ἐν Ἁλικαρνασσῶι γαζοφύλαξ ἀπὸ τῶν ἰατρικῶν Ἀντιπάτ[ρωι]
r.5    τῶι π[αρὰ] Ξανθίππ[ο]υ εἰς τὴν να[ῦ]ν ἣν τριηραρχεῖ Ξάνθιππος δραχμὰς Β, τὰς δὲ υξε διώβολον [χαλκοῦς β]
r.6    διάπεμψον πρὸς ἡμᾶς δούς τινι ἀκίνδυνον, καὶ περὶ τῶν Γ δραχμῶν ἐπιμελήθητι ὅπως
r.7    διαγράψηι Ἀπολλωνίωι καθότι ἐπεστάλκαμεν αὐτῶι.
r.8    ἔρρωσο. ἔτους κη, Ἀπελλαίου κζ.
r.9    Ἀπολλόδοτος Ξανθίππωι χαίρειν. εἰ τῶι τε σώματι ἔρρωσαι καὶ τὰ ἄλλα σοι κατὰ γνώμη[ν]
r.10   ἐστίν, εἴη ἂν ὡς ἡμεῖς θέλομεν· ἐρρώμεθα δὲ καὶ αὐτοί. ἐγράψαμέν σοι πρότερον διότι δεδώκαμεν διὰ Περιγένους εἰς τὴν ναῦν ἣν τριηραρχεῖς Ἀντιπάτρωι τῶι ἐπιπλέοντι
r.11   ἐπὶ τῆς νεὼς δραχμὰς Β. ὅπως οὖν τοῦτό τε καὶ τὸ δοθὲν Ἑκατωνύμωι εἰς τὴν ἐννήρη
r.12   δραχμὰς υξε διώβολον χαλκοῦς β, ἐάν τε φαίνηταί σοι, διαγράψηις Μηδείωι εἰς τὰ ἰατρικά, ἐάν τε βούλη[ι],
r.13   γράψηις Ἱκεσίωι διορθώσασθαι ἡμῖν ἀπὸ τῶν ἐνηροσίων, οὐθὲν δὲ σοῦ ἐπεσταλκότ[ος]
r.14   βέλτιον ὑπελάβομεν εἶναι πάλιν γράψαι σοι περὶ τούτων. καλῶς ἂν οὖν ποιήσαις
r.15   ἐπιστείλας ἡμῖν ὡς βούλει γενέσθαι, ἵνα καὶ ἡμεῖς οὕτω καταχωρίσωμεν. ἐὰν δὲ
r.16   φαίνηταί σοι Χαρμίδει τῶι παρʼ ἡμῶν τῶι τὴν ἐπιστολήν σοι ἀποδεδωκότι
r.17   διαγράψαι, διάγραψον.
r.18   ἔρρωσο.
r.19   Ἀπολλόδοτος Ξανθίππωι χαίρειν. χωρὶς τῶν Β δραχμῶν ὧν γεγράφαμέν σοι ἐν τῆι ἑτέ[ρ]αι
r.20   ἐπιστολῆι δεδώκαμεν ἄλλας Ἀντιπάτρωι τῶι παρὰ σοῦ τριηραρχοῦντι τὴν ἐννήρη δραχμὰς Γ
r.21   ἃς δεῖ σε διορθώσασθαι Ἀπολλωνίωι τῶι διοικητῆι. καλῶς ἂν οὖν ποιήσαις συντάξ[α]ς
r.22   διαγράψαι αὐτῶι καθότι ὑπογεγράφαμέν σοι.
r.23   ἔρρωσο.
r.24   Ξάνθιππος Ἀπολλωνίωι. ὃ διέγραψεν Ἀπολλόδοτος ἐν Ἁλικαρνασσῶι διὰ τῆς Σωπόλιος
r.25   Ἀντιπάτρωι τῶι ἐπὶ τῆς Ξανθίππου ἐννήρους, τὸ πεπτωκὸς ἔτος κζ Περιτίου η παρὰ ταμιῶν
r.26   Ἁλικαρνασσέων τῶν ἐπὶ Δημητρίου, ὁ στέφανος τῶι βασιλεῖ, ὃν ἐξεδέξατο Ἀπολλώνιος
r.27   Ἐπικύδει, ὃ δεήσει Ξάνθιππον διαγράψαι Ἀπολλωνίωι ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι ἀκίνδυνον, δραχμὰς Γ.
r.28   Χαρμίδει
r.29   ἀντίγραφα ἐπιστολῶν τῶν πρὸς
r.30   Ξ[άνθι]ππον

[TRANSLATION]
1     Apollodotos to Charmides, greeting. I have written out below for you the copies of the letters
2     to Xanthippos. Having met with him, then, both concerning the … drachmas, find out how
3     he wishes to manage it, and, if he is willing to pay it over to you, take it from him and pay over to Medeios
4     what Straton the treasurer in Halikarnassos had given from the medical (funds) to Antipatros
5     the (agent) of Xanthippos, for the ship which Xanthippos commands as trierarch, 2 drachmas, and the 465 (drachmas) 2 obols [2 chalki]
6     send across to us, giving them to someone (to carry) safely, and concerning the 3 drachmas take care that
7     they be paid over to Apollonios as we have instructed him.
8     Farewell. Year 28, Apellaios 27.
9     Apollodotos to Xanthippos, greeting. If you are well in body and your other affairs are according to your wish,
10    it would be as we desire; we ourselves are also well. We wrote to you earlier that we had given, through Perigenes, for the ship which you command as trierarch, to Antipatros who sails
11    on the ship, 2 drachmas. So that this and what was given to Hekatonymos for the nine-banked ship,
12    465 drachmas 2 obols 2 chalki, if it seems good to you, you may pay over to Medeios for the medical (funds), or if you wish,
13    you may write to Hikesios to settle (it) for us from the plough-rents; and since you had given no instruction,
14    we thought it better to write to you again concerning these matters. You would do well, then,
15    to write to us how you wish it to be done, so that we too may register it thus accordingly. And if
16    it seems good to you to pay it over to Charmides, our (agent), who has delivered the letter to you,
17    pay it over.
18    Farewell.
19    Apollodotos to Xanthippos, greeting. Apart from the 2 drachmas which we have written to you about in the other
20    letter, we have given to Antipatros, your trierarch of the nine-banked ship, another 3 drachmas
21    which you must settle with Apollonios the dioiketes. You would do well, then, to give orders
22    to pay it over to him as we have written out below for you.
23    Farewell.
24    Xanthippos to Apollonios. What Apollodotos paid over in Halikarnassos through Sopolis
25    to Antipatros, the (agent) on Xanthippos's nine-banked ship, the sum due in year 27 Peritios 8, from the treasurers
26    of the Halikarnassians under Demetrios, the crown for the king, which Apollonios received
27    for Epikydes, which Xanthippos will have to pay over to Apollonios in Alexandria safely, 3 drachmas.
28    To Charmides.
29    Copies of the letters to
30    Xanthippos.
