[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 3.59299
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 3.59299
name:     Letter — Philadelphia? (Arsinoites)
genre:    letters
date:     250 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia? (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Philadelphia? (Arsinoites) (250 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (geschäftlich) — Euempolos an Zenon — Landwirtschaft — Anbau — Knoblauch — Sorten
tm:       943
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;3;59299
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    Εὐέμπολος Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. ἔγραψάς μοι τὰ σκόρδα τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς πέτρας ἀρεστά σοι εἶναι,
r.2    εἰ δὲ καὶ τὰ παρʼ ἐμοί ἐστι τοιαῦτα, ἵνα ὑπάρχηι εἰς τὰς ἀποστολάς. τὰ μὲν οὖν παρʼ ἐμοὶ ὄψιμα
r.3    ὄντα ὑπάρξει εἰς φυτείαν. τὴν γὰρ γῆν συντάξαντός σου τότε δοῦναί μοι Ἡρακλείδην,
r.4    συνέταξεν Ἁρμοδίωι, αὐτὸς δέ σοι συνκατέπλευσεν, Ἁρμόδιος δὲ Χαιριγένει. παρέλκων
r.5    οὖν καὶ οὐκ ἀποδιδοὺς τὴν γῆν κατὰ καιρὸν τὴν φυτείαν ὄψιμον ἐποίησεν. ἔγραψας δὲ
r.6    Θεοπόμπωι τὰ ἡμίση σοι Τλωικὰ ἀποστεῖλαι, τὰ δὲ ἡμίση Ὀασιτικά. οὐκ ἐφυτεύθη οὖν
r.7    ἐπὶ τῆς πέτρας Ὀασιτικά· ἀλλʼ ὅσα ποτὲ ὕπηρχεν ἐν ταμιείωι, ἦν δʼ ὀλίγα, ἐγὼ αὐτὰ ἐφύτευσα, ἃ οὐκ ἦν ἄξια ἀποστολῆς. οὐ μὴν ἀλλὰ καὶ ταῦτα καὶ τὰ λοιπὰ τὰ ἁδρότατα αὐτῶν
r.8    καὶ τὰ δεύτερα κατὰ γένος δεσμεύσας συνθήσω, ἵνα παραγενόμενος ὡς ἂν βούληι
r.9    ἔχηις αὐτοῖς χρᾶσθαι. ἔρρωσο. ἔτους κε Παχὼνς β.
r.10   ἔτους λϛ, Παχὼνς ϛ. Ζήνωνι
r.11   Εὐέμπολος σκόρδων.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Euempolos to Zenon greetings. You wrote to me the garlic on the rock [is] pleasing to you,
2     and if also the things with me are such, so that [they] might be available for the shipments. The things then with me being late
3     being will be available for planting. For the land having been ordered by you then, to give me Herakleides,
4     [you] ordered Harmodios, and he himself sailed down together with you, but Harmodios [ordered] to Chairigenes. Dragging [things]
5     on then and not delivering the land in time for planting made the planting late. And you wrote
6     to Theopomos [ordering to] send you the half Tloeic, but the half Oasitic. So the Oasitic was not planted
7     on the rock; but as many as were ever in the storehouse, and they were few, these I planted, which were not worthy of shipment. Nevertheless both these and the remaining finest ones of them
8     and the second ones according to kind, tying them together I will arrange, so that having come whenever you might wish
9     you might have them to use. Farewell. Year 25, Pachon 2.
10    Year 36, Pachon 6. To Zenon
11    Euempolos concerning garlic.