[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 3.59300
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 3.59300
name:     Letter — Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    letters
date:     250 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Philadelphia (Arsinoites) (250 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (geschäftlich) — Euempolos an Zenon — Landwirtschaft — Weinbau — Schätzung — Ernte — Steuern — Erlaubnis
tm:       944
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;3;59300
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    Εὐέμπολος Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. τῶν ἐπὶ μέρει τοὺς ἀμπελῶνας φυτευσάντων εἰς τὸ κε ἔτος
r.2    ἠξίωσα ὑπηρέτην λαβὼν παρὰ Ἡρακλείδου ἐφοδεῦσαι, ἵνα τοὺς πεφυτευκότας σίκυον
r.3    ἢ κολόκυνταν ἢ κρόμμυον ἢ ἄλλο τι ἀπογράψωμαι, ἵνα ἐξ συντιμήσεως καθὰ καὶ πρότ[ε]ρον τὸ ἡμίσευμα τάξωνται. δόντος οὖν μοι Ἡρακλείδου ὑπηρέτην καὶ ἀξιοῦντος καλῶς
r.4    οὕτω ποιεῖν, οὐδενὸς τῶν λοιπῶν ἀντιλέγοντος, Ἀπολλωνίδης οὐκ ἔφη ἐάσειν με εἰς
r.5    τὸν ἀμπελῶνα παρελθεῖν, εἰδὼς οὖν αὐτοῦ τὴν μανίαν συναντᾶν ἐκέλευον ὅταν
r.6    περιοδεύω καὶ κωλῦσαί με. δικαίως οὖν Ἀπολλωνίδει φλυαρεῖν ἐπερχεται· εἰ γὰρ τὰ
r.7    διάφορα, καθάπερ εἶπας τότε, τῆς διαπράσεως τοῦ ἑκατονταρούρου ἀμπελῶνος
r.8    εἰσεπράχθη, οὐκ ἂν νῦν διὰ κενῆς ἐφλυάρει. ἐμοῦ γὰρ ἀποδομένου ἐν μὲν τοῖς Πύθωνος οὐδὲ ἀρούρας ε δραχμῶν κ καὶ ἐν τοῖς Νεοπτολέμου εἰ πάνυ πολλὰς ἀρούρας ζ δραχμῶν μα,
r.9    καὶ ἐν τῶι μέσωι μετὰ Ἀνόσιτος ὑπὸ κήρυκα ἀποδομένου καθὰ συνέταξας, ἐκεῖνος οὐδενὶ
r.10   παραγγείλας οὐδὲ Ἄνοσιν παραλαβών, καταγαγὼν οὕς ποτε ἠβούλετο καὶ ἰδίαι
r.11   συμφωνήσας πρὸς αὐτούς, δραχμῶν ν ἔφη πεπρακέναι καὶ οὐδὲ εἰς τὰ Ἰσιεῖα ὑπελίπετο
r.12   σταφυλήν, φάσκων πρὸς πάντας ὁπόσην βούλει ὑπάρχειν σοι. ἀλλὰ περὶ μὲν
r.13   τούτων παραγενόμενος αὐτὸς ἐπισκέψει· τὰς δὲ ληνοὺς οὔτε ἐπισκευάζει οὐδεὶς
r.14   οὔτε ἄλλας οἰκοδομοῦσι, ὁ δὲ καιρὸς πάρεστι· Παχὼνς γὰρ πέρυσι κη ἠρξάμεθα
r.15   τρυγᾶν· ἀλλʼ οὐδὲ τὸν μῦν ἑτοιμάζονται θηρεύειν. ὥστε, ἐὰν μὴ ἐν τάχει
r.16   παραγενόμενος περὶ πάντων συντάξηι, ἄλλοις ἐπέχων οὐκ ὀλίγων καθυστερήσεις. ἔρρωσο. ἔτους κε, Παχὼνς β.
r.17   ἔτους λϛ, Παχὼνς ϛ.
r.18   Εὐέμπολος τρυγήσεως.
r.19   Ζήνωνι

[TRANSLATION]
1     Euempolos to Zenon, greeting. Of those who planted the vineyards on a share-basis in the 25th year
2     I thought it right, taking an assistant from Herakleides, to go around on inspection, so that I might register those who have planted cucumber
3     or gourd or onion or anything else, in order that, by valuation as before, they may be assessed the half. So when Herakleides gave me an assistant and thought it right
4     to do so well, with none of the rest objecting, Apollonides said he would not let me enter
5     the vineyard; so, knowing his madness, I ordered (the assistant) to meet me when
6     I make my round, and to hinder me. Justly then does it fall to Apollonides to talk nonsense; for if the
7     proceeds, as you said at that time, of the sale of the hundred-aroura vineyard
8     had been collected, he would not now be talking nonsense to no purpose. For when I sold, in Python's land not even 5 arourae for 20 drachmas, and in Neoptolemos's land, if very many, 7 arourae for 41 drachmas,
9     and in the middle (land), having sold with Anosis by the herald as you arranged, that man, having given notice to no one
10    nor having taken Anosis along, bringing down whomever he wished and privately
11    agreeing with them, said he had sold for 50 drachmas, and did not even leave for the Isis-festivals
12    a grape-cluster, declaring to all "as much as you wish is available to you." But concerning
13    these things, when you arrive you will inspect yourself; but the vats no one
14    is repairing nor are they building others, and the season is at hand; for last year on Pachons
15    28 we began to gather the vintage; but they are not even getting ready to hunt the mouse.
16    So, unless you arrive quickly and arrange about everything, holding back for others you will fall short by not a little. Farewell. Year 25, Pachons 2.
17    Year 36, Pachons 6.
18    Euempolos, about the vintage.
19    To Zenon.
