[META]
id:       P.Cair.Zen. 3.59368
label:    P.Cair.Zen. 3.59368
name:     Letter — Memphis (?)
genre:    letters
date:     241 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Memphis (?)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Memphis (?) (241 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Sostratos an Zenon — Kopie — Eingabe — Bienenzüchter — Bienen — Transport — Gaugrenzen — Dioiketes — Hypodioiketes (?)
tm:       1011
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.zen;3;59368
lat:      29.849491
lon:      31.255061

[GREEK]
r.1    Σώστρατος [Ζήνωνι Ξενοφῶντι χαίρειν. ἧς ἔγραψεν Σωσίβ]ιος ἐπιστολῆς Ζηνοδώρωι περὶ τῶν σμηνῶ[ν ] … [ τὸ ἀντίγ]ραφον
r.2    ὑπογέγραφα ε … τὸ παρʼ ἡμῶν ὑπό[μνημα ] … [ μ]ὴ ἔτι καὶ
r.3    νῦν ὁ Ἀμμώ[ν]ιος ἐξευδοκῆι ὑμᾶς κ[α]ὶ π … καὶ τ[ῶν σ]μηνῶν, τούς
r.4    τε μελισσουργοὺς καὶ Ῥόδωνα πέμπετε πρὸς ἡμᾶς ἔχοντας πάντα τὰ
r.5    δικαιώμαθʼ ὅπως, καθότι ἠξιώκαμεν, ἐνθάδʼ ἡμῖν κριθῶσιν. γεγράφαμεν δὲ
r.6    καὶ Ζηνοδώρωι περί τε τούτων καὶ τῆς Πάτιτος οἰκίας. ἔρρωσθε. ἔτους ζ, Παῦνι η.
r.7    Σωσίβιος Ζηνοδώρωι χαίρειν. ἀπέσταλκά σοι τὸ ἀντίγραφον τοῦ δοθέντος ἡμῖν παρὰ Κλέωνος τοῦ Ἰά[σονος καὶ Σωστρ]άτου τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ περὶ
r.8    ὧν φασιν ἀδικεῖσθαι ὑπʼ Ἀμμωνίου [τοῦ] οἰκ[ον]όμου. σπούδασον οὖν ὅπως
r.9    τὰ δίκαια αὐτοῖς γένηται καθότι ἀξιοῦσιν.
r.10   ὑπόμνημα Σωσιβίωι παρὰ Κλέωνος καὶ Σωστράτου. ὕπηρχεν ἡμῖν
r.11   ἔτι ἐπὶ τοῦ πατρὸς τοῦ βασιλέως σμήνη Α, ἃ ἐμεμίσθωτο κα[τὰ] συγγραφὴν τὴν γεγενημένην ἐν τοῖς … Σιμαρίστου Ὧρος καὶ υἱοί, ὧν τινα μὲν
r.12   ἐν τῶι Ἡρακλεοπολίτηι ἦν, ἃ τοὺς φόρους εὐτάκτηκεν ἕως τοῦ ϛ ἔτους
r.13   τινὰ δὲ ἐν τῶι Μεμφίτηι, ἃ εἶχεν Παμῆς καὶ Ἀμεννεύς, οὓς νῦν ἀκούομεν μεταγηγοχέναι εἰς τὸν Ἡρακλεοπολίτην ἄνευ ἡμῶν, Ἀμμώνιος δʼ ὁ οἰκονόμος
r.14   ἀπαγήοχεν αὐτοὺς καὶ τὰ σμήνη καταφθείρει ἐγκόπτων αὐτοῖς.
r.15   διὰ τό, ἀφαιρουμένου τῶν μελισσουργῶν αὐτοῦ βίαι σμήνη ρ,
r.16   Σώστρατος παρεπιδημῶν, ὅτε ἐπὶ τὸν ὀπισμὸν ἀνέπλευσεν,
r.17   ἐντυχὼν Διονυσίωι τῶι παρὰ Ζη[ν]οδώρου ἐνεφάνισεν, καὶ ἐκεῖνος φοβηθεὶς ἀφῆκε τοὺς μελισσουργούς. ὁ δʼ αὐτὸς οὗτος καθʼ ὃν χρόνον μετὰ τοῦ
r.18   βασιλέως ἐξεδημοῦμεν, ὑπαρχόντων ἡμῖν ἐν Βουσείρει τοῦ Ἡρακλεοπολίτου χόρτου μυριάδων ιε , ἀπήγαγεν τὸν χορτοφύλακα Ῥόδωνα εἰς τὸ
r.19   δεσμωτήριον, ἔδησε πέδαις καὶ εἶχεν ἐν φυλακῆι μῆνας η, ἐν δὲ τούτωι διεφώνησαν ὑπὸ τῶν λαῶν μυριάδες ιβ · περὶ ὧν καὶ ἀνάκρισις ὑπάρχει
r.20   καὶ ἀεί ποτʼ ἔφη πράξας ἀποδώσειν τὴν τιμήν. συνέβη δὲ καὶ ναῦλον
r.21   ἡμῖν προσάγεσθαι τοῦ Κρίτωνος πλοίου, ὃ ἐμισθώθη ἵνα εἰς Ἀλεξάνδρειαν καταχθῆι χόρτος δραχμῶν Ασ· παραγενομένου γὰρ τοῦ πλ[οί]ου
r.22   ἐπὶ τὸν ὅρμον καὶ τῶν παρʼ αὐτοῦ κωλυσάντων κενὸν ἀπῆλθεν.
r.23   ἀξιοῦμεν οὖν σε, ἐπειδὴ οὐθʼ ἡμῖν ἐκποιεῖ ἀποδημεῖν
r.24   οὔτʼ ἐκείνωι ἐνθάδε παραγενέσθαι, γράψαι αὐτῶι ἀποστεῖλαι τοὺς
r.25   μελισσουργοὺς καὶ τὸν κριθησόμενον ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ, ὅπως
r.26   μὴ ἐκεῖ καταστασιασθῶμεν ὑπʼ αὐτοῦ· καὶ ἐκ τῶν καθʼ ἡμᾶς
r.27   αἰσθήσει πῶς τοὺς λοιποὺς τοὺ[ς] ἐκ τοῦ νομοῦ διατίθησιν.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Sostratos [to Zenon (and) Xenophon, greeting. Of the letter which Sosib]ios wrote to Zenodoros about the beehives … the copy
2     I have appended below … the memorandum from us … lest even now and
3     now Ammonios should again give consent to you and … and of the beehives, the
4     beekeepers and Rhodon send to us, having all the
5     legal documents, so that, as we have thought right, they may be judged here before us. We have also written
6     to Zenodoros both about these things and about the house of Patis. Farewell. Year 7, Pauni 8.
7     Sosibios to Zenodoros, greeting. I have sent to you the copy of what was given to us by Kleon son of Iason [and Sostr]atos his brother concerning
8     the matters in which they say they are wronged by Ammonios [the] steward. Take care, then, that
9     justice be done to them as they think right.
10    Memorandum to Sosibios from Kleon and Sostratos. We had,
11    already in the time of the king's father, 1,000 beehives, which had been leased by contract made in the … (office) of Simaristos, Horos and (his) sons, of which some
12    were in the Herakleopolite (nome), the rents of which he has paid in order up to the 6th year,
13    and some in the Memphite (nome), which Pames and Amenneus held, whom we now hear have transferred to the Herakleopolite without us, and Ammonios the steward
14    has carried them off and is destroying the beehives by hindering them.
15    Because of this, when he forcibly took away 100 beehives from his beekeepers,
16    Sostratos, being on a visit, when he sailed up for the …,
17    meeting Dionysios the agent of Zenodoros, made it known, and that man, taking fright, released the beekeepers. But this same man, at the time when, with the
18    king, we were abroad, when we had in Busiris of the Herakleopolite 150,000 (bundles?) of hay, carried off the hay-guard Rhodon to
19    prison, bound him with fetters and kept him in custody for 8 months, and during this time 120,000 were lost by the people; concerning which there is also an inquiry,
20    and he kept saying he would, when he had acted, pay the price. It also happened that freight-charge
21    was charged to us for Kriton's boat, which was hired so that the hay might be brought down to Alexandria, of 1,200 drachmas; for when the boat arrived
22    at the harbour and his men prevented it, it went away empty.
23    We ask you therefore, since it is neither possible for us to go abroad
24    nor for that man to come here, to write to him to send the
25    beekeepers and the one who will be judged on his behalf, so that
26    we may not be overborne there by him; and from our case
27    you will perceive how he treats the rest of those from the nome.
