[META]
id:       P.CAIR.MASP 1.67001
label:    P.CAIR.MASP 1.67001
name:     Contract — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     514 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (514 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Arbeit — Schafhirten — Bewachung — Land
tm:       18976
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.cair.masp;1;67001
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    χμγ
r.2    [ὑπα]τείας Φλ[αυίου] Σε[νά]τορος τοῦ λαμ[προτάτου]
r.3    . Τῦβι β [ὀγδόης ἰνδικτίονος]
r.4    τῇ κοινότητι τῶν πρωτοκωμητῶν καὶ συντελεστῶν καὶ κτητόρων κώμη[ς]
r.5    Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου νομοῦ, τὸ κοινὸν τῶν ποιμένων καὶ
r.6    ἀγροφυλάκων τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ αὐτοῦ νομοῦ, διʼ ἡμῶν
r.7    Αὐρηλίων Φοιβάμμωνος υἱοῦ Ἑρ[μαού][ωτ]ος Ψακ … ι[ς καὶ] Ψενθ[α]ησίου Μουσαίου Πανπετ
r.8    καὶ Ἀνούφιου υἱοῦ Ἀβρααμίου Παχωμίου καὶ Ἑρμαούωτος Ἰωσηφίου Πλοκ καὶ Ἑρμαούωτος
r.9    Ψεντουωρίου καὶ Βίκτορος Ψαίου Καλεουακις καὶ Πανουβε Ἑρμαούωτος καὶ Βίκτορος
r.10   Ψαίου Σιμοῦς καὶ Ἀπολλ[ῶ]τος Ἀβρααμίου Πλοκ καὶ Βίκτορος Ἑρμαούωτος καὶ Βίκτορος Πρωμάωτος
r.11   καὶ Πάλωτο[ς] Παπ[ηοῦ][τος] καὶ Οὐερσενουφίου τοῦ καὶ Πνωτε ἐκ πατρὸς Ἡρακλείου, χαίρειν.
r.12   ἔθος ἐστὶ εἰώθαμεν ἐκ πατέρων ἡμῶ[ν κα]ὶ [π]ρ[ογό]νων [ἐκτελέσαι] παραφυλακὴν
r.13   ὅλων κτημάτων πάσης τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης περὶ ἀπελασίαν ζῴων καὶ
r.14   ἑτέρων σκευῶν ἐν τοῖς εἰρημένοις κτήμασι· ἀκριβῶς δὲ μαθόντες
r.15   ὥστε καὶ ἡμεῖς πάντες τῶν προτεταγμένων ἐκτελέσωμεν τὴν αὐτὴν παραφυλακήν,
r.16   καὶ εἰς ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν τιθέμενοι πειθαρχοῦντες, διʼ ἧς
r.17   ὁμολογοῦντες ἑκόντες καὶ πεπεισμένοι ἑτοίμως ἔχομεν τὴν αὐτὴν
r.18   πᾶσαν παραφυλακὴν ποιήσομεν ἀόκνως καὶ ἀκαταγνώστως πάντων κτημάτων
r.19   διακειμένων καὶ περικύκλοθεν πάσας πεδιάδας τῶν τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης
r.20   πρὸς τὰ ἀρχαῖα ὅρια μεταξὺ τῶν συνημμένων τῆς ἡμῶν κώμης κωμῶν,
r.21   πρὸς τὸ μὴ βλαβῆναι ὁ δημόσιος λόγος, ἐπὶ τὸν χρόνον τῆς ἡμῶν ζωῆς
r.22   ἀπὸ τῆς σήμερον τῆς προγεγραμμένης, ἥτις ἐστὶ μηνὸς Τῦβι δευτέρα δευτερη
r.23   παρούσης ὀγδόης ἰνδικτίονος, εἰς τὸ ἑξῆς τῆς αὐτῆς ἡμῶν ζωῆς, καὶ μὴ εὑρηθείη τε
r.24   οἱανδήποτε βλάβην ἀπὸ τῶν αὐτῶν κτημάτων, μήτε περὶ ζῴων καὶ
r.25   θρεμμάτων καὶ γεωργικῶν ἐργαλιδίων καὶ ἄλλων σκευῶν ἀπὸ τιμίου
r.26   ἕως ἀτιμίου, ἐπὶ δὲ τοῖς αὐτοῖς κτήμασι τῆς εἰρημένης κώμης καὶ τοῦ τῆς
r.27   ταύτης ὄρου πρὸς τὰ τεταγμένα ἀρχαῖα ὅρια· εἰ δὲ βλάβην γένηται ἐκ τῶν κτημάτων
r.28   τῶν προτεταγμένων, ἑτοίμως ἔχομεν οἱ προγεγραμμένοι ἀνυπερθέτως
r.29   οἴκοθεν ἐπιγιγνώσκειν τῇ ὑμῶν σεβασμιότητι ἐκ πλήρους, λημψομένων δὲ
r.30   ὑπὲρ λόγου ἡμῶν μισθοῦ παρά τε τῆς ὑμῶν θαυμασιότητος καὶ παρὰ τῶν συντελεστῶν
r.31   καὶ ἄλλων ὄντων ἐν τοῖς πεδιάδοις τῆς εἰρημένης κώμης ἑκάστῳ τόπῳ,
r.32   σίτου ἀρτάβας τρεῖς καὶ οἴνου κολοβὸν ἕν· μέντοι γε τὴν αὐτὴν βλάβην ἐπιγνωσόμεθα
r.33   ὡς προείπομεν ἰδίῳ ἡμῶν κινδύνῳ καὶ τῶν ἡμῶν πραγμάτων. καὶ εἰς ἀσφάλειαν
r.34   ἐθέμεθα ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν ὀμνύοντες τὸν θεῖον καὶ σεβάσμιον ὅρκον ἐφʼ
r.35   ὑπογραφῆς ἐμῆς Φοιβάμμων[ος] καὶ τῶν ὑπὲρ ἄλλων ὑπογραφόντων· καὶ ἐπερωτηθέντες ὡμολογήσαμεν
r.36   Αὐρήλιος Φοιβάμμων Ἑρμαύωτος ὁ προκείμενος ἐθέμην ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν ὡς π[ρό]κειται.
r.37   Αὐρήλιοι Ψενθαῆσις Μουσαίου καὶ Ἀνοῦφις Ἀβρααμίου Παχωμίου καὶ Ἑρμαύως Ἰωσηφίου
r.38   καὶ Ἑρμαύως Ψεντουωρίου καὶ Βίκτωρ Ψαΐου καὶ Πανουβε Ἑρμαύωτος ποιμένες καὶ ἀγροφύλακες οἱ προκείμενοι ἐθέμεθα ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν καὶ ὠμόσαμεν τὸν θεῖον ὅρκον
r.39   ὡς πρόκειται, καὶ στοιχούμεθα πᾶσι τοῖς ἐγγεγραμμένοις ὡς πρόκειται. Ἰωάννης Βησκούιτος
r.40   διάκονος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν γράμματα μὴ εἰδότων Αὐρήλιοι Βίκτωρ Ψαίου
r.41   Σιμοῦς, καὶ Ἀπο[λλ]ὼς Ἀβρααμίου καὶ Βίκτωρ Ἑρμαύωτος καὶ Βίκτωρ Προμαύωτο[ς]
r.42   καὶ Πάλως Παπηοῦτος καὶ Οὐερσενούφις ὁ καὶ Π[ν]ωτε ἐκ πατρὸς [Ἡ]ρακλείου, ποιμέ[νες]
r.43   καὶ ἀγροφύλακες οἱ προκείμενοι ἐθέμεθα ταύτη[ν] τὴν ὁμολογίαν καὶ ὠμόσαμεν τὸν
r.44   θεῖον ὅρκον ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Ἀβραὰμ Βίκτορος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ
r.45   αὐτῶν γράμματα μὴ εἰδότων. Αὐρήλιος Ἰωάννης Ἡρακλείδου μαρτυρῶ
r.46   τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Αὐρήλιος Μουσαῖος Ψιμανωβετ
r.47   μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Αὐρήλιος Ἑρμαύως Βόττου μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων.
r.48   ἐγράφη διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἰσακίου νομικοῦ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Chi-mu-gamma (= 643).
2     In the consulship of Flavius Senator the most illustrious,
3     . Tybi 2 [of the eighth indiction].
4     To the community of the chief-villagers and tax-contributors and proprietors of the village
5     of Aphrodite of the Antaiopolite nome, the corporation of the shepherds and
6     field-guards of the same village of Aphrodite of the same nome, through us,
7     the Aurelii: Phoibammon son of Hermaouos, Psak…is, and Psenthaesios son of Mousaios, Panpet,
8     and Anouphis son of Abraamios, Pachomios, and Hermaouos son of Iosephios, Plok, and Hermaouos
9     son of Psentouorios, and Biktor son of Psaios, Kaleouakis, and Panoube son of Hermaouos, and Biktor
10    son of Psaios, Simous, and Apollos son of Abraamios, Plok, and Biktor son of Hermaouos, and Biktor son of Promaos,
11    and Palos son of Papeous, and Ouersenouphios also called Pnote, from his father Herakleios, greeting.
12    It is the custom — we have been accustomed from our fathers and forebears — to carry out the guarding
13    of all the holdings of all of the same village of Aphrodite, against the driving-off of animals and
14    of other goods on the said holdings; and, having learned exactly
15    that we too, all of the aforesaid, should carry out the same guarding,
16    and entering into this agreement, in obedience, through which,
17    agreeing willingly and being persuaded, we are ready (to undertake) that same
18    whole guarding, and we shall perform it unhesitatingly and blamelessly, of all the holdings
19    lying about and round about all the plains of (those of) the same village of Aphrodite
20    up to the ancient boundaries, between the villages adjoining our village,
21    so that the public account be not harmed, for the time of our life,
22    from this present aforesaid day, which is the second of the month Tybi, the second day
23    of the present eighth indiction, into the future of the same our life; and may no
24    damage whatsoever be found from the said holdings, neither concerning animals and
25    livestock and farming implements and other goods, from the valuable
26    to the worthless, upon the same holdings of the said village and of the
27    boundary of this (village) up to the appointed ancient boundaries. And if damage occur from the holdings
28    of the aforesaid, we the undersigned are ready, without delay,
29    out of our own means to make it good to your reverence in full; we receiving
30    on account of our wages, from your admirableness and from the tax-contributors
31    and others being in the plains of the said village, for each place,
32    three artabas of grain and one kolobon of wine. Moreover, we shall make good the same damage
33    as we said before, at our own risk and (that) of our own property. And for security
34    we have made this agreement, swearing the divine and revered oath, upon
35    the subscription of myself, Phoibammon, and of those subscribing on behalf of the others; and on being formally questioned we gave our assent.
36    I, Aurelius Phoibammon son of Hermauos, the aforesaid, have made this agreement as set forth above.
37    We, the Aurelii: Psenthaesis son of Mousaios and Anouphis son of Abraamios, Pachomios, and Hermauos son of Iosephios,
38    and Hermauos son of Psentouorios, and Biktor son of Psaios, and Panoube son of Hermauos, shepherds and field-guards, the aforesaid, have made this agreement and have sworn the divine oath
39    as set forth above, and we comply with all that is written, as set forth above. Ioannes Beskouitos,
40    deacon, having been requested, wrote on their behalf, they not knowing letters. The Aurelii: Biktor son of Psaios,
41    Simous, and Apollos son of Abraamios and Biktor son of Hermauos and Biktor son of Promauos
42    and Palos son of Papeous and Ouersenouphis also called Pnote, from his father Herakleios, shepherds
43    and field-guards, the aforesaid, have made this agreement and have sworn the
44    divine oath as set forth above. I, Aurelius Abraam son of Biktor, having been requested, wrote on
45    their behalf, they not knowing letters. I, Aurelius Ioannes son of Herakleides, bear witness
46    to the agreement, having heard from those making it. I, Aurelius Mousaios, Psimanobet,
47    bear witness to the agreement, having heard from those making it. I, Aurelius Hermauos son of Bottos, bear witness to the agreement, having heard from those making it.
48    It was written by me, Isakios, notary.
