[META]
id:       P.COL 4.66
label:    P.COL 4.66
name:     Letter — Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    letters
date:     256 BCE – 255 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Philadelphia (Arsinoites) (256 BCE – 255 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — NN an Zenon — Beschwerden — schlechte Behandlung — weil er kein Grieche ist — Kamele — Syrien — Flucht — Armut — keine Bezahlung für Lohn
tm:       1781
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.col;4;66
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    … δ … Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. καλῶς ποιεῖς εἰ ἔρρωσαι. ἔρρωμαι δὲ καὶ αὐτός. ἐπίστασαι ὡς κατέλιπές με ἐν Συρίαι μετὰ
r.2    Κρότου καὶ ἐποίουν πάντα τὰ προστασσόμενα τὰ κατὰ [τὰ]ς καμήλους καὶ ἤμην σο[ι] ἀνέγκλητ[ο]ς. σοῦ δὲ προστάξαντός μοι ὀψώνιον διδόναι ἃ σὺ συνέταξας οὐκ ἐδίδου
r.3    μοι οὐθὲν. ἐπεὶ δὴ πολλάκ[ι]ς μου δεομένου διδόναι μοι
r.4    ἃ σὺ συνέταξας οὐκ ἐδίδου μοι οὐθὲν Κρότος, ἀλλʼ
r.5    ἐκέλευέν με ἀπαλλάσσεσθαι, χρόνον μὲν οὖν πολὺν ἐκαρτέρουν σε προσδεχόμενος, ἐπεὶ δὲ τῶν ἀναγκαίων ἐνδεὴς ἤμην καὶ οὐθὲν ἠδυνάμην οὐδαμόθεν πορίζειν, ἠναγκάσθην ἀποτρέχειν εἰς Συρίαν ἵνα μὴ τῶι
r.6    λιμῶι παραπόλωμαι. ἔγραψα οὖν σοι ἵνα εἰδῆις ὅτι Κρότος αἴτιος. σοῦ δὲ πάλιν με ἀποστείλαντος εἰς Φιλαδέλφειαν
r.7    πρὸς Ἰάσονα καὶ ποιοῦντός μου πάντα τὰ προστασσόμενα,
r.8    ἃ σύ μοι συνέταξας οὐθέν μοι δίδω[σ]ι ἤδη μηνῶν ἑννέα
r.9    τὸ ἔλαιον οὐ δὲ σῖτον ἀλλὰ παρὰ δίμηνον ὅταν καὶ τὰ ἱμάτια [ἀ]ποδῶται.
r.10   ἐγὼ δὲ καὶ θέρος καὶ χειμῶνα ἐν τῶι πόνωι γίνομαι. ὁ δέ μοι συντάσσει ὄξος λαμβάνειν εἰς ὀψώνιον. ἀλλὰ κατεγνώκασίν μου ὅτι εἰμὶ
r.11   βάρβαρος. δέομαι οὖν σου εἴ σοι δοκεῖ συντάξαι αὐτοῖς ὅπως τὰ ὀφειλόμενα
r.12   κομίσωμαι καὶ τοῦ λοιποῦ εὐτάκτωσίν μοι ἵνα μὴ τῶι λιμῶι παραπόλωμαι ὅτι οὐκ ἐπίσταμαι ἑλληνίζειν. σὺ οὖν καλῶς ἂν ποιήσαις
r.13   ἐπιστροφήν μου ποιησάμενος. ἐγὼ δὲ εὔχομαι πᾶσι τοῖς θεοῖς καὶ τῶι
r.14   δαίμονι τοῦ βασιλέως σε ὑγιαίνειν καὶ ἐλθεῖν τὸ τάχος πρὸς ἡμᾶς ὅπως
r.15   αὐτὸς ἰδῆις ὅτι ἀνέγκλητός εἰμι.
r.16   ἔρρωσο.
r.17   Ζήνωνι

[TRANSLATION]
1     … to Zenon, greeting. You do well if you are in good health. I too am well. You know how you left me in Syria with
2     Krotos, and I did everything that was ordered concerning the camels and was blameless toward you. But although you ordered that the wages be given to me which you arranged, he gave
3     me nothing. For although I often asked him to give me
4     what you had arranged, Krotos gave me nothing, but
5     kept ordering me to be off; so for a long time I held out, waiting for you, but when I was in want of necessities and could obtain nothing from anywhere, I was compelled to run away into Syria, lest I
6     perish of hunger. So I wrote to you, that you might know that Krotos is to blame. And when you again sent me off to Philadelphia
7     to Iason, and I did everything that was ordered,
8     for nine months now he gives me nothing of what you arranged for me,
9     neither the oil nor the grain, except every two months when he pays out also the clothing-allowance.
10    And I, both summer and winter, am at my labor. He orders me to take sour wine for my wages. But they have despised me because I am
11    a barbarian. I beg you therefore, if it seems good to you, to give them orders that I may receive
12    what is owed, and that for the future they pay me regularly, lest I perish of hunger because I do not know how to act the Greek. You therefore would do well
13    to give heed to me. And I pray to all the gods and to
14    the guardian-spirit of the king that you be in good health and come quickly to us, so that
15    you yourself may see that I am blameless.
16    Farewell.
17    To Zenon.
