[META]
id:       P.COLL.YOUTIE 2.73
label:    P.COLL.YOUTIE 2.73
name:     Contract — Panopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     289 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Panopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Panopolis (289 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Dokument — Deklaration (ἀπογραφή) — Kauf (Teil eines Hauses) — Eid
tm:       20894
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.coll.youtie;2;73
lat:      26.5648875
lon:      31.7451755

[GREEK]
r.1    βιβλιοφύλαξι ἐγκτήσεων Πανοπολίτου
r.2    παρὰ Αὐρηλίας Σενπάσειτος Πάσειτος μητρὸς Τανσνῶτος ἱερείας ἀπὸ
r.3    Πανὸς πόλεως. ἀπογράφομαι παρʼ ὑμῖν σήμερον δίκαιον
r.4    ὠνῆς μέρους δεκάτου τριακοστοῦ οἰκίας σὺν τῷ ἀνήκοντι ταύτηι χρηστηρίωι ἐπὶ τοῦ β ἀμφόδου Πανὸς πόλεως πρότερον Ἁρσύτου
r.5    καὶ ὁμοίως ἀρούρης μιᾶς ἐν πεδίῳ Μαρίωνος ἐκ λιβὸς θυγατέρων Διοσκόρου Καλυκᾶ τεθειμένης μοι κατʼ ἔγγραφον δισσὴν
r.6    ἀσφάλειαν τῷ ζ ἔτει Πρόβου μηνὸς Παῦνι παρὰ Αὐρηλίας Ἀρτεμιδώρας
r.7    Βησαρίωνος νεωτέρου μητρὸς Εὐδαιμονίδος διʼ Αὐρηλίου Εὐδαίμονος
r.8    τοῦ καὶ Φιλοπάτορος ἀνδρὸς αὐτῆς ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς, δημοσιωθείσης ὑπʼ ἐμοῦ τῶι ἐνεστῶτι ε ἔτει καὶ δ ἔτει μηνὶ Παῦνι διὰ τοῦ ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι καταλογείου ἐπὶ Κλαυδίου Φιλώτα τοῦ καὶἹέρακος
r.9    ἱερέως καὶ ἀρχιδικαστοῦ, καὶ ἀξιῶ, ἀναδοῦσα ὑμῖν ἐν ἐκτάκτῳ τὴν
r.10   δημοσίωσιν, τὴν δέουσαν παράθεσιν τῶι ὀνόματί μου γενέσθαι ὡς καθήκει, καὶ ὀμνύω τὴν τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν
r.11   Διοκλητιανοῦ καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ Σεβαστῶν τύχην ἀληθῆ
r.12   εἶναι τὰ προκείμενα.
r.13   ἔτους ε καὶ δ τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Διοκλητιανοῦ καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ
r.14   Σεβαστῶν Μεσορὴ ἐπαγομένων δ
r.15   Αὐρηλία Σενπᾶσις Πάσιτος ἡ προκειμένη ἀπογράφομαι ὡς πρόκειται.
r.16   ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς Αὐρήλιος Πετεαρβεσχῖνις Ὡρῶτος ἱερεὺς
r.17   ἀνὴρ αὐτῆς.
r.18   Αὐρήλιος Ἱέραξ ὁ καὶ Μῶρος γυμνασιαρχήσας βιβλιοφύλαξ
r.19   ἔσχον τούτου τὸ ἴσον εἰς καταχωρισμὸν
r.20   κινδύνωι τῆς ἀπογραψαμένης.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To the keepers of the property-records of the Panopolite (nome),
2     from Aurelia Senpaseis daughter of Paseis, her mother being Tansnos, priestess, from
3     Panopolis. I register with you today my right
4     of purchase of a tenth-thirtieth share of a house with the appurtenant courtyard belonging to it, in the 2nd quarter of Panopolis, formerly of Harsytes,
5     and likewise of one aroura in the plain of Marion, on the west (belonging) to the daughters of Dioskoros son of Kalykas, conveyed to me by a written double
6     security in the 7th year of Probus, in the month Pauni, by Aurelia Artemidora
7     daughter of Besarion the younger, her mother being Eudaimonis, through Aurelius Eudaimon
8     also called Philopator, her husband, from the same (city), (the transaction) having been made public by me in the present 5th year and 4th year, in the month Pauni, through the record-office in Alexandria, in the office of Claudius Philotas also called Hierax
9     priest and archidikastes; and I request, having delivered to you in extra session the
10    public registration, that the requisite entry be made under my name as is proper, and I swear by the Fortune of our lords
11    Diocletian and Maximian the Augusti that the
12    foregoing is true.
13    Year 5 and 4 of our lords Diocletian and Maximian
14    the Augusti, Mesore, of the intercalary days, the 4th.
15    I, Aurelia Senpasis daughter of Pasis, the aforesaid, register as above.
16    I, Aurelius Petearbeschinis son of Horos, priest, wrote on her behalf,
17    her husband.
18    Aurelius Hierax also called Moros, former gymnasiarch, keeper of records:
19    I have received the duplicate of this for entry,
20    at the risk of the registrant.
