[META]
id:       P.COL 4.83
label:    P.COL 4.83
name:     Contract — Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     245 BCE – 244 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Philadelphia (Arsinoites) (245 BCE – 244 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Enteuxis — Eingabe — Darlehen — Zinssatz zu hoch — Frau — Kind — Gefängnis
tm:       1796
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.col;4;83
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Ἀντίπατρος τῶν ἐκ Φιλαδελφείας. ἀδικοῦμαι ὑπὸ Ν[ίκ]ωνος.
r.2    δανείσας γάρ μου τῆι γυναικὶ Σίμωι ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς ο, τόκου ὡς τὴν μνᾶν τὸν μῆνα ἕκαστον δραχμῶν ἕξ ,
r.3    καὶ κεφαλαιώσας σὺν τῶι ἀρχαίωι συνεγράψατο συγγραφὴν δανείου πρὸς αὐτὴν δραχμῶν ριε ἐφʼ ἧς ἐπεγράφην ἔγγυος ἐγώ. ἀπελθόντος δέ μου ἐκ Φιλαδελφείας διὰ τὸ συκοφαντεῖσθαι ὑπὸ Ἀρτεμι[δ]ώρου τοῦ
r.4    παρʼ Ἀπολλωνίου τοῦ διοικητοῦ καὶ ἀνοίξαντος καπηλεῖον ἐν Ἑρμοῦ πόλει τῆι ἄνω, Νίκων ἔγραψεν
r.5    ἐπιστολὴν εἰς Φιλαδέλφειαν πρὸς Μενέστρατόν τινα ἡμέτερον οἰκέ[τη]ν ἐν ἧι καὶ γράφει ὅρκον βασιλικὸν συνγράψεσθαι πρὸς ἡμᾶς τοῦ ἀρχαίου αὐτοῦ τῶν ο δραχμῶν. τοῦ δὲ Μενεστράτου μοι γράψαντος εἰς
r.6    Ἑρμοῦ πόλιν παραγενέσθαι καὶ ἐμοῦ καταπλεύσαντος εἰς Φιλαδέλφειαν, Νίκων ἀναπλεύσας εἰς Ἑρμοῦ
r.7    πόλιν τὴν γυναῖκά μου ἔφη παραδώσειν τῶι πράκτορι πρὸς τὸ δάνειον ἐὰν μὴ ἑκοῦσα ἀκολούθηι
r.8    αὐτῶι. εὐλαβηθείσης δὲ τῆς Σίμου καὶ συνκαταπλευσάσης τῶι Νίκωνι μετὰ τοῦ παιδίου
r.9    ἀγαγὼν αὐτοὺς εἰς Ἡρακλέους πόλιν κατέκλεισεν παρά τισιν χωρὶς ἑκάτερον. ἡ μὲν οὖν Σῖμον
r.10   λαθοῦσα ἀπῆλθεν. τὸ δὲ παιδίον ἔτι καὶ νῦν ἔχει συνκεκλεικὼς καὶ ἀξιούντων ἡμῶν ἀποδοῦναι
r.11   ὅτε μὲν ὁμολογεῖ ἔχειν πρὸς τὸ δάνειον ἠνεχυρακώς, ὅτε δὲ ἀρνεῖται. δέομαι οὖν σου, βασιλεῦ, ἀποσταλῆναι μου τὴν ἔντευξιν ἐπὶ χρηματιστὰς καὶ ἐὰν ἐνδείξωμαι ἀληθῆ ὄντα τὰ διὰ τῆς ἐντεύξεως
r.12   τυχεῖν Νίκωνα τῆς προσηκούσης τιμωρίας περί τε τῶν τόκων ὧν συνγέγραπται παρὰ τὸ
r.13   διάγραμμα καὶ ὅτι τὸν ἐλεύθερον εἴρξας ἔχει διʼ αὐτοῦ, ἐμοὶ δὲ ἀποδοθῆναι τὸ παιδίον, ἵνα ἐπὶ σέ,
r.14   βασιλεῦ, καταφυγὼν τοῦ δικαίου τύχω.
r.15   εὐτύχει.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To King Ptolemy, greeting from Antipatros, one of those from Philadelpheia. I am being wronged by Nikon.
2     For having lent to my wife Simo seventy drachmas of silver, at interest of six drachmas per mina each month,
3     and having capitalized it together with the principal, he drew up a loan-contract against her for 115 drachmas, on which I was registered as surety. But after I had departed from Philadelpheia because I was being maliciously prosecuted by Artemidoros, the agent
4     of Apollonios the dioiketes, and had opened a tavern in Hermopolis the Upper, Nikon wrote
5     a letter to Philadelpheia to one Menestratos, a household servant of ours, in which he also writes that he would draw up a royal oath against us concerning his principal of 70 drachmas. And when Menestratos wrote to me to
6     come to Hermopolis, and I had sailed down to Philadelpheia, Nikon, having sailed up to Hermopolis,
7     said that he would hand over my wife to the collector for the loan unless she would willingly follow
8     him. And Simo, taking fright and having sailed down together with Nikon along with the little child,
9     he led them to Herakleopolis and shut each of them up separately with certain people. Simo, then,
10    slipped away and departed. But the little child he still even now keeps shut up; and when we demand that he give it back,
11    at one time he agrees that he holds it as security against the loan, but at another he denies it. I beg you therefore, O King, that my petition be sent to the chrematistai, and if I demonstrate that what is in the petition is true,
12    that Nikon meet with the punishment befitting both concerning the interest which he contracted contrary to the
13    ordinance, and because he holds the free person imprisoned through himself; and that the little child be given back to me, so that, having fled for refuge to you,
14    O King, I may obtain justice.
15    Farewell.
