[META]
id:       P.COL 8.244
label:    P.COL 8.244
name:     Contract — Arsinoiton Polis
genre:    contracts
date:     501 CE – 600 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoiton Polis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoiton Polis (501 CE – 600 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Grundstück
tm:       40982
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.col;8;244
lat:      29.3149635
lon:      30.8399565

[GREEK]
r.1    καὶ α[ὐ]τὰ πάντα διπλᾶ πρὸς τὸ καὶ μετὰ τὴν τούτων
r.2    πάντων καταβολὴν πάλιν ἰσχυρὰν καὶ ἀσάλευτον
r.3    εἶναι τήνδε τὴν [κ]αταγρ[α]φὴν ἁπλῆν γραφεῖσαν
r.4    καὶ ὑπέθετο ὁ πεπρακὼς Φοιβάμμων τῷ πριαμένῳ
r.5    Παύλῳ εἰς ἅπαντα τὰ προγεγρ[αμ]μένα ἅπαντα ἑαυτοῦ
r.6    τὰ ὑπάρχοντα καὶ ὑπάρξοντα ἰδικῶς καὶ γενικῶς
r.7    ἐνεχύρου λόγῳ καὶ ὑποθήκης δικαίῳ καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης
r.8    καὶ ἐπὶ τούτοις ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὁ ἀποδόμενος Φοιβάμμων
r.9    ὑπὸ τοῦ πριαμένου Παύλου εἰς ἕκαστον τῶν προγεγραμμένων
r.10   κατὰ πρόσωπον ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρήλιος Φοιβάμμον υἱὸς Ποῦσι μητρὸς Κυρᾶς ὁ προκίμενος πέπρακα τὰς ὑπαρχούσας μου ἐν πεδίῳ κώμης
r.11   Ψυνήρεως ἐν τόπῳ κλήρου καλουμένου Πιᾶ Ἀντρίου ἀρούρας τέσσαρας πλέων
r.12   ἐλάττων καὶ ἐπληρώθην τὴν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν τιμὴν χρυσίου νομισμάτια
r.13   εἴκοσι τέσσαρα πλήρη δοθέντα μοιεἰς χεῖρας ἐπὶ παρουσίᾳ τῶν ἑξῆς
r.14   ὑπογραφόντων μαρτύρων καὶ ἀναγνοὺς καὶ ὑπογράψας χειρὶ ἐμῇ ἀπέλυσα
r.15   Φλάουιος Ἄπα Ὃλ υἱὸς Νείλου ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀρσινοετῶν πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇδε [τῇ] πράσει, παρήμ[ην] δὲ
r.16   καὶ τῇ δόσει τοῦ χρυσίου ὡς πρόκειται. Φοιβάμμων ἀναγνωστὴς ἁγίας καθολικῆς
r.17   ἐκκλησίας τῆς Ἀρσινοειτῶν πόλεως υἱὸς τοῦ τῆς εὐλαβοῦς μνήμης Ποῦσι μαρτυρῶ
r.18   τῇδε τῇ πράσει, παρήμην δὲ καὶ τῇ δόσει τοῦ χρυσίου ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος
r.19   Ἀμ μώνιος υἱὸς Ἀβρααμίου τελωνάρχης ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀρσινοειτῶν πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇδε τῇ
r.20   πράσει, παρήμην δὲ καὶ τῇ δόσει τοῦ χρυσίου ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Φοιβάμμον υἱὸς τοῦ μακαρ[ί]ου
r.21   Μηνᾶ πρεσβυτέρου ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀρσινοειτῶν πόλεως μαρτυρῶ τῇδε τῇ πράσει καὶ τῇ δόσει τοῦ χρυσίου
r.22   ὡς πρόκιται. Λεόντιος διάκονος τῆς
r.23   καθολικῆς ἐκκλησίας τῆς Ἀρσινοιτῶν πόλεως
r.24   υἱὸς Πέτρου μαρτυρῶ τῇδε τῇ πράσει, παρήμην δὲ καὶ τῇ δόσει τοῦ χρυσίου τῆς τιμῆς ὡς πρόκιται.
r.25   δι εμυ απα ολ επιφανιυ
r.26   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἄπα Ὅλ

[TRANSLATION]
1     and all these (penalties) double, so that even after the payment
2     of all these, this deed of conveyance remains valid and unshaken,
3     though written in single copy;
4     and Phoibammon the seller has pledged to the buyer
5     Paulos, for all the aforesaid, all his own
6     property, both present and future, particularly and generally,
7     by way of security and by right of mortgage, just as by judicial decree.
8     And upon these terms, having been asked the formal question, Phoibammon the seller,
9     by the buyer Paulos, as to each of the aforesaid,
10    face to face, I assented. I, Aurelius Phoibammon, son of Pousi, my mother being Kyra, the aforesaid, have sold the (arouras) belonging to me in the field of the village
11    of Psyneris, in the place of the holding called Pia Antriou, four arouras, more
12    or less, and I have been paid the price for them, of gold solidi
13    twenty-four, in full, given to me into my hands in the presence of the
14    witnesses signing below; and having read it and signed with my own hand, I have issued it.
15    I, Flavius Apa Hol, son of Neilos, from the city of the Arsinoites, bear witness to this sale, and I was present
16    also at the giving of the gold as aforesaid. I, Phoibammon, reader of the holy catholic
17    church of the city of the Arsinoites, son of Pousi of pious memory, bear witness
18    to this sale, and I was present also at the giving of the gold as aforesaid. I, Aurelius
19    Ammonios, son of Abraamios, chief tax-farmer, from the city of the Arsinoites, bear witness to this
20    sale, and I was present also at the giving of the gold as aforesaid. I, Aurelius Phoibammon, son of the blessed
21    Menas the presbyter, from the city of the Arsinoites, bear witness to this sale and to the giving of the gold
22    as aforesaid. I, Leontios, deacon of the
23    catholic church of the city of the Arsinoites,
24    son of Petros, bear witness to this sale, and I was present also at the giving of the gold of the price as aforesaid.
25    Through me, Apa Hol son of Epiphanios.
26    Through me, Apa Hol.
