[META]
id:       P.DRYTON 1.33
label:    P.DRYTON 1.33
name:     Petition — unbekannt
genre:    petitions
date:     136 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     Heidelberg
shelf:    
content:  Petition from unbekannt (136 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Apollonia und ihre Schwestern an den Epistrategen Boethos — Streit (Erbe) — die Schwestern versuchen — Haus und Land ihres Vaters zurückzubekommen — deren sich ihr Großonkel bemächtigt hatte — da die Mädchen beim Tod ihres Vaters minderjährig waren
tm:       253
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.dryton;1;33
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Βοήθωι συγγενεῖ καὶ ἐπιστρατήγωι
r.2    παρʼ Ἀπολλωνίας τῆς καὶ Σεμμώνθιος κα[ὶ] Ἀμμωνίας τῆς καὶ Σεμμίνιος καὶ Ἡρακλείας ἣ Σεναπᾶθις
r.3    καὶ Ἡραίδος ἣ Τάσρις τῶν Πτολεμαίου Κυρηναίων καταγινομένων ἐν Παθύρει. ἀδικούμεθʼ ὑπὸ Καλλιμήδου
r.4    τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου ὃς Πατοῦς Ψεμμώνθου τῶν πεζῶν καὶ Καλίβιος γυναικὸς αὐτοῦ καὶ τῶν τούτων
r.5    υἱῶν Ὀρσέους καὶ Πανοβχ[ο]ύνιος. τοῦ προγεγραμμένου πατρὸς ἡμῶν Πτολεμαίου τοῦ Ἑρμοκράτου ὃς ἦν
r.6    τῶν Διοδότου πεζῶν μεταλλάξαντος τὸν βίον καὶ ἀπ[ο]λιπόντος ἡμῖν τὰ ὑπάρχοντʼ αὐτῶι ἀδιάθετα
r.7    ὁ ἐνκεκλημένος ὑπερισχύων καταφρονήσας τῶι νε[ω]τέρας ἀπολελεῖφθαι, ὡς δὲ κατὰ τὸ συνγενικὸν ἐπελθὼν σὺν τοῖς ἐνκαλουμένοις καὶ ἄλλοις οὔτε κατʼ ἀνχιστείαν ἀπογραψάμενοι οὔτε κατὰ διαθήκην ἀπολελειμμένοι ἐπίτροποι κατὰ τὸ σιωπώμενον ἐμβατεύσαντες εἰς τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν ἡμῖν οἰκίαν ἐν τῆι Παθύρει
r.8    ἐνώικησαν βίαι οἳ ἐπανοίξαντες τὸν οἶκον καὶ τὰ ἀπολειφθένθʼ ἡμῖν ὑπὸ τοῦ πατρὸς ἡμῶν ἔπιπλα
r.9    τάς τε προκτήσεις τῶν ἐγγαιδίων ἐξιδιασάμενοι ἀπηνέγκαντο καὶ ἀπʼ ἐκείνου διὰ παρευρέσεως ἀεί ποτε
r.10   ἀντιποιούμενοι τῶν ἡμετέρων παρʼ ἕκαστον καταβλάπτοντες διασείουσιν. ἐνήλικοι δὲ
r.11   γενόμεναι κατὰ τὸ ἀναγκαῖον κληρονομήσασαι ταξάμεναι τὰ καθήκοντα τέλη θεᾶι Βερενίκηι κυριεύομεν. ὅθεν οὐκ ἀποδιδόντων τὰ ἡμέτερα ἐπεδώκαμεν ἐν τῶι λ ἔτει προσανγελίαν
r.12   Ἡρακλείδει γενομένωι ἀρχιφυλακίτηι τοῦ Παθυρίτου ἐφʼ οὗ ἀνομολογησάμενοι μόλις ἀπέδωκάν τινα. Συναλλάγματα δὲ καὶ συμβόλαια ἰδιόχρεα καὶ ἕτερα γράμματα λυμανάμενοι ἔβλαψαν τὰ διʼ αὐτῶν διάφορα
r.13   τά τʼ ἔπιπλα ταξάμενοι ἀποδοῦναι οὐκ ἐποίησαν, οἰόμενοι ὅρκωι ἀποκλύσαντες ἡμᾶς
r.14   στερέσειν, προφανῶς ἔνοχοι ὄντες φωρᾶι λείας ἐφημμένοι ἀλλοτρίων καὶ ταῦτʼ ὀρφανικῶν. ὑπὲρ ὧν
r.15   πλεονάκις ἐντετευχυιῶν ὑπερέχων ἡμᾶς ἀπράκτους καθίστησι. καὶ ἐν τῶι δὲ λβ ἔτει καταπερισταντες σὺν Ὁνῆι τῶι ὑπεπιστατήσαντ[ι] τῆι βίαι ἀπηνέγκαντο πυροῦ ἀρτάβας ιγ καὶ ἐξ οἴκου
r.16   Ὁνῆς κριθῆς ἀρτάβας γ, ἀντιποιοῦνται δὲ καὶ τῆς προγεγραμμένης οἰκίας. διὸ καὶ ἐπὶ Σαντοβίθυος
r.17   [τοῦ στρατηγοῦ ] … [ συ]νσχεθεὶς ἠξίωσεν ὡς μετὰ τὴν δίεσιν παντὶ δίκαιον
r.18   … ου. Ὡσαύτως ἐπὶ Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπὶ τοῦ Παθυρίτου
r.19   … μων κληρονομίαν καὶ συνγραφὴν πατρικῆς
r.20   … [ ὑ]πογράφει ἐν τοῖς μάρτυσι ὁ Πατοῦς συνορῶν
r.21   … [ τὴ]ν ὑπογραφήν. οὕτως ἑκουσίως ὁ Καλλιμήδης
r.22   … α διὰ μον[ο]γράφου Θορ[τ]αίου ἔφεσιν λαβόν… τοῦ λδ ἔτους
r.23   [ἔτους] [λ]δ Παχὼν κη
r.24   Ἀπολλωνίας καὶ Σαντοβ[ιθυι]
r.25   Ἀμμωνίας

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Boethos, kinsman (of the king) and epistrategos,
2     from Apollonia also called Semmonthis, and Ammonia also called Semminis, and Herakleia who is also Senapathis,
3     and Herais who is Tasris, daughters of Ptolemaios, Cyrenaeans residing in Pathyris. We are being wronged by Kallimedes
4     son of Apollonios, who is (the son of?) Patous son of Psemmonthes, of the infantry, and by Kalibis his wife, and their
5     sons Orseus and Panobchounis. Our aforesaid father Ptolemaios son of Hermokrates, who was
6     one of the infantry of Diodotos, having departed this life and having left to us his property intestate,
7     the accused, prevailing (over us) and despising (us) because we had been left as minors, and entering on the family side together with the accused and others — neither having registered themselves by right of kinship nor having been left as guardians by will — by tacit (right) having occupied the house belonging to us in Pathyris,
8     dwelt in it by force; and, having broken open the house and the furniture left to us by our father,
9     and having appropriated the prior possessions of the lands, they carried them off, and from that time, through pretext, ever
10    laying claim to our property at every turn, harming us, they extort from us. But having come
11    of age, by necessity having inherited (and) having paid the appropriate dues to the goddess Berenike, we have ownership. Wherefore, since they were not returning our property, we submitted in the 30th year a report
12    to Herakleides, who had become chief-guard of the Pathyrite (nome), before whom, having made acknowledgment, they barely returned some things. But having damaged the agreements and private-debt contracts and other documents, they damaged the assets accruing through them,
13    and, having undertaken to return the furniture, they did not do so, thinking that, by clearing us off with an oath,
14    they would deprive (us); being manifestly liable to (the charge of) theft, having laid hold of others' property, and that of orphans at that. Concerning which,
15    though we have petitioned many times, the one prevailing (over us) keeps us without redress. And in the 32nd year, having set themselves against (us) together with Hones the deputy-overseer, by force they carried off 13 artabas of wheat and, from the house
16    of Hones, 3 artabas of barley; and they also lay claim to the aforesaid house. Wherefore also, before Santobithys
17    [the strategos] … being detained, he requested that, after the dismissal, by every right …
18    … u. Likewise before Ptolemaios, the one in charge of the Pathyrite (nome),
19    … mon, inheritance and the contract of paternal …
20    … the Patous subscribes among the witnesses, perceiving
21    … the subscription. Thus voluntarily Kallimedes
22    … a, through the notary Thortaios, taking an appeal … of the 34th year.
23    [Year] 34, Pachon 28.
24    Of Apollonia and Santob[ithys].
25    Of Ammonia.
