[META]
id:       P.DURA 31
label:    P.DURA 31
name:     Contract — Ossa (in der Nähe von Dura - Europos)
genre:    contracts
date:     204 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Ossa (in der Nähe von Dura - Europos)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Ossa (in der Nähe von Dura - Europos) (204 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Scheidung
tm:       17228
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.dura;;31
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ιεφ, μηνὸς Ἀρτεμισίου δ, ἐν Ὄσσῃ Κώμῃ,
r.2    ἐπὶ τῶν ὑποχειρογραφηκότων μαρτύρων. Ναβουσάμαος Κόνωνος καὶ Ἄκοζζις Σελεύκου,
r.3    ἀμφότεροι δὲ τῶν ἀπὸ Ὄσσης Κώμης, φάμενοι γεγενῆσθαι αὐτοῖς τὸν συνοικισμὸν ἔτι
r.4    πρότερον ἀγράφως, τέκνα δὲ αὐτοῖς μὴ γένηται, δυσαρε[σ]τεῖς δὲ νυνὶ τὴν ἑαυτῶν
r.5    συμβίωσιν, ἐξωμολογήσατο ἀφίστασθαι ἀπὸ
r.6    ἀλλήλων καὶ διδόναι ἀλλήλοις ἔφεσιν καὶ ἐξουσίαν, Ναβουσάμαος μὲν τῇ Ἀκόζζει συνοικεῖν ἑτέρῳ ἀνδρὶ ὃ ἂν αὐτὴ αἱρῆται, Ἄκοζζις δὲ τῷ Ναβουσαμάῳ γαμεῖν ἄλλην γυναῖκα ὃ ἂν αὐτὸς βούληται, καὶ μὴ ἐνκαλεῖν μηδὲ ἐγκαλέσειν
r.7    ἀλλήλοις μήτε τοῦ συνοικισμοῦ μήτε περὶ τῶν
r.8    ὑπαρχόντων δούλων καὶ κτημάτων μήτε
r.9    παρευρέσειμηδεμιᾷ μήτε περὶ ἄλλου μηδενὸς
r.10   ἁπλῶς· ἐὰν δὲ ἐγκαλέσῃ τις ἐξ αὐτῶν ἢ ἕτερος ἐκ τοῦ
r.11   αὐτοῦ λόγου, τὸ μὲν ἔνκλημα ἢ τὸν ἀθέτησιν εἶναι
r.12   ἄκυρον καὶ ἀποτείνειν ἄνευ λόγου καὶ κρίσεως
r.13   τῷ μὲν ἑτέρῳ ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς χιλίας
r.14   καὶ τῷ φίσκῳ τὰς ἴσας, καὶ τὴν συνγραφὴν ταύτην εἶναι καὶ οὕτως κυρίαν.
r.15   ἐπὶ ὑπάτων Λουκίου Φαβίου Κύλωνος τὸ β καὶ Φλαυίου Ἀννίου Λίβωνος· ἔτους ιβτῆς Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Λουκίου
r.16   Σεπτιμίου Σεουήρου Περτίνακος Αὐγούστου, ι δὲ Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου
r.17   Ἀντωνίνου Σεβαστοῦ, ζ δὲ Λουκίου Σεπτιμίου Γέτα Καίσαρος,
r.18   υἱῶν αὐτοῦ Σεβαστῶν, ἡγεμονίας· κατὰ δὲ τὸν πρότερον ἀριθμὸν ιεφ, μηνὸς Ἀρτεμισίου δ, ἐν Ὄσσῃ Κώμῃ ἐπὶ τῶν
r.19   ὑποχειρογραφηκότων μαρτύρων. Ναβουσάμαος Κόνωνος
r.20   τοῦ Ἀβισσαίου καὶ Ἄκοζζις Σελεύκου τοῦ Ἀβισσίου, ἀμφότεροι δὲ τῶν ἀπὸ Ὄσσης Κώμης, φάμενοι γεγενῆσθαι αὐτοῖς τὸν συνοικισμὸν ἔτι πρότερον ἀγράφως, τέκνα δὲ αὐτοῖς μὴ γένηται, δυσαρε[σ]τεῖς δὲ νυνὶ τὴν ἑαυτῶν
r.21   συμβίωσιν, ἐξωμολογήσαντο ἀφίστασθαι ἀπὸ ἀλλήλων
r.22   καὶ διδόναι ἀλλήλοις ἔφεσιν καὶ ἐξουσίαν, Ναβουσάμαος
r.23   μὲν τῇ Ἄκοζζις συνοικεῖν ἑτέρῳ ἀνδρὶ ὃ ἂν αὐτὴ αἱρῆται, Ἄκοζζις δὲ τῷ Ναβουσαμάῳ γαμεῖν ἄλλην
r.24   γυναῖκαὃ ἂν αὐτὸς βούληται, καὶ μὴ ἐνκαλεῖν μηδὲ
r.25   ἐνκαλέσειν ἀλλήλοις μήτε περὶ τοῦ συνοικισμοῦ μήτε πρὸς
r.26   κληρονόμων αὐτῶν μήτε πρὸς ἄλλον τινὰ τῶν ἐξ
r.27   ὀνόματος αὐτῶν ἔνγραφον ἐνγράφου ἐνστάντος
r.28   ἢ γενομένη τῶν ἀπὸ τῶν ἀνωτέρων χρόνων, κυρίας
r.29   μενούσης τῆσδε τῆς ὁμολογίας παν[τα]χοῦ προφερομένης πίστει ἐπηρώτησαν ἀλλήλοις καὶ ὡμολόγησαν ἀλλήλοῖς μήτε παρευρέσει μηδεμιᾷ μήτε περὶ ἄλλου
r.30   τὸ σύνολον, ἐὰν δὲ ἐνκαλέσῃ τις ἐξ αὐτῶν τὸ μὲν ἔνκλημα εἶναι ἄκυρον καὶ ἀποτείνειν ἄνευ λόγου καὶ κρίσεως
r.31   τῷ μὲν ἑτέρῳ ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δηνάρια τρισχίλια καὶ
r.32   εἰς φίσκον τὰς ἴσας, καὶ τὴν συνγραφὴν ταύτην εἶναι
r.33   καὶ οὕτως κυρίαν. μάρτυρες· Ζαβεῖνας Ἀδαίου, Ἀβισσαῖος Ἀβισσαίου.
r.34   Ναβουσάμαος Κόνωνος, ὁ ἐπάνω,
r.35   ὁμολογῶ καὶ
r.36   εὐδοκῶ κατὰ τὰ προγεγραμμένα.
r.37   Βαρναῖος Λυσίου, ἐρωτηθείς, ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ Ἄκοζζις
r.38   μητρός μου, ὁμολογούσης δὲ τῆςἐπάνω καὶ
r.39   εὐδοκούσης.
r.40   Ἰούλιος Γερμανός, οὐετρανός, μαρτυρῶ.
r.41   Ζαβεῖνας Ἀδαίου μαρτυρῶ.
r.42   Ἀβισσαῖος Ἀβισσαίου μαρτυρῶ.
r.43   ἐκπέπληκται.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 515, in the month of Artemisios 4, in Ossa Village,
2     before the witnesses who have signed below. Nabousamaos son of Konon and Akozzis son of Seleukos,
3     both of those from Ossa Village, declaring that their cohabitation had come about between them still
4     earlier without written contract, and that children were not born to them, and that now they are displeased with their
5     life together, acknowledged that they separate from
6     one another and give to one another release and authority, Nabousamaos that Akozzis may cohabit with another man whomever she may choose, and Akozzis that Nabousamaos may marry another woman whomever he himself may wish, and that they shall not bring charge nor shall bring charge
7     against one another either concerning the cohabitation or concerning the
8     existing slaves and possessions, nor
9     on any pretext whatever nor concerning anything else
10    at all; and if any of them brings charge, or another from the
11    same account, the charge or the annulment shall be
12    invalid, and (the one charging) shall pay, without plea or trial,
13    to the other party a penalty of one thousand silver drachmas
14    and to the treasury the same; and that this contract shall be and so valid.
15    In the consulship of Lucius Fabius Cilo for the 2nd time and of Flavius Annius Libo; the 12th year of Imperator Caesar Lucius
16    Septimius Severus Pertinax Augustus, and the 10th of Marcus Aurelius
17    Antoninus Augustus, and the 7th of Lucius Septimius Geta Caesar,
18    his sons, the Augusti, of the rule; and according to the former reckoning 515, in the month of Artemisios 4, in Ossa Village before the
19    witnesses who have signed below. Nabousamaos son of Konon
20    son of Abissaios and Akozzis son of Seleukos, son of Abissios, both of those from Ossa Village, declaring that their cohabitation had come about between them still earlier without written contract, and that children were not born to them, and that now they are displeased with their
21    life together, acknowledged that they separate from one another
22    and give to one another release and authority, Nabousamaos
23    that Akozzis may cohabit with another man whomever she may choose, and Akozzis that Nabousamaos may marry another
24    woman whomever he himself may wish, and that they shall not bring charge nor
25    shall bring charge against one another either concerning the cohabitation or against
26    their heirs nor against any other one of those in
27    their name, whether a written document presently existing
28    or one that has come about from earlier times, this agreement
29    remaining valid wherever it is produced; in good faith they questioned one another and acknowledged to one another, neither on any pretext whatever nor concerning anything else
30    in all; and if any of them brings charge, the charge shall be invalid, and (the one charging) shall pay, without plea or trial,
31    to the other party a penalty of three thousand silver denarii and
32    to the treasury the same; and that this contract shall be
33    and so valid. Witnesses: Zabeinas son of Adaios, Abissaios son of Abissaios.
34    I, Nabousamaos son of Konon, the above,
35    acknowledge and
36    consent according to the things written above.
37    I, Barnaios son of Lysias, having been asked, wrote on behalf of Akozzis
38    my mother, she the above acknowledging and
39    consenting.
40    Julius Germanus, veteran, I bear witness.
41    Zabeinas son of Adaios, I bear witness.
42    Abissaios son of Abissaios, I bear witness.
43    It has been completed.
