[META]
id:       P.ELEPH 2dupl
label:    P.ELEPH 2dupl
name:     Documentary papyrus — Elephantine
genre:    documents
date:     284 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Elephantine
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Elephantine (284 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Testament — Erbschaft — Söhne — Schulden
tm:       5837
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.eleph;;2dupl
lat:      24.09
lon:      32.889

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου ἔτους μ μηνὸς Γορπιαίου ἐφʼ ἱερέως Μενελάου τοῦ Λαάγου. συγγραφὴ καὶ ὁμολογία. τάδε διέθετο Διονύσιος Τημνίτης Καλλίσται Τημνίτει τῆι αὑτοῦ γυναικί. ἐὰν δέ τι πάσχηι Διονύσιος, καταλείπειν τὰ ὑπάρχοντα αὑτοῦ πάντα Καλλίσται καὶ κυρίαν
r.2    εἶναι τῶν ὑπαρχόντων πάντων μέχρι ἂν ζῆι. ἐὰν δέ τι πάσχηι Καλλίστα Διονυσίου ζῶντος,
r.3    κύριον εἶναι Διονύσιον τῶν ὑπαρχόντων. ἐὰν δέ τι πάσχηι Διονύσιος, καταλειπέτω τὰ ὑπάρχοντα
r.4    πᾶσιν τοῖς υἱοῖς τοῖς αὑτοῦ, κατὰ τὰ αὐτὰ δὲ καὶ Καλλίστα ἐάν τι πάσχηι, καταλειπέτω τὰ ὑπάρχοντα πᾶσι τοῖς υἱοῖς πλὴν τῶν μερῶν, ὧν ἂν λαμβάνωσι παρὰ Διονυσίου καὶ Καλλίστας ἐργαζόμενοι Βάκχιος Ἡρακλείδης Μητρόδωρος τοῦ πατρὸς ζῶντος καὶ τῆς μητρός. γημάντων δὲ καὶ καταχωρισθέντων Βακχίου Ἡρακλείδου Μητροδώρου ἔστω τὰ ὑπάρχοντα τὰ Διονυσίου καὶ Καλλίστας κοινὰ πάντων τῶν υἱῶν· ἐὰν δέ τι ἐξαπορῶνται ἢ χρέος ὀφείλωσιν Διονύσιος ἢ Καλλίστα ζῶντες
r.5    τρεφέτωσαν αὐτοὺς οἱ υἱεῖς πάντες κοινῆι καὶ συναποτινέτωσαν τὰ χρέα πάντες. ἐὰν δέ τις αὐτῶν
r.6    μὴ θέληι ἢ τρέφειν ἢ συναποτίνειν ἢ μὴ συνθάπτωσιν, ἀποτεισάτω ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς χιλίας
r.7    καὶ ἡ πρᾶξις ἔστω ἐκ τοῦ ἀτακτοῦντος καὶ μὴ ποιοῦντος κατὰ τὰ γεγραμμένα. ἐὰν δέ
r.8    καταλείπωσιν Διονύσιος ἢ Καλλίστα χρέος τι, ἐξέστω τοῖς υἱοῖς μὴ ἐμβατεύειν, ἐὰν μὴ βούλωνται τελευτήσαντος Διονυσίου καὶ Καλλίστας. ἡ δὲ συγγραφὴ ἥδε κυρία ἔστω πάντηι πάντως,
r.9    ὅπου ἂν ἐπιφέρηται ὡς ἐκεῖ τοῦ συναλλάγματος γεγενημένου. τὴν δὲ συγγραφὴν ἑκόντες ἔθεντο παρὰ συγγρα[φο]φύλα[κα] Ἡράκλειτον. μάρτυρες Πολυκράτης Ἀρκάς, Ἀνδροσθένης Κῶιος,
r.10   Νουμήνιος Κρής, Σιμωνίδης Μαρωνίτης, Λῦσις Ἡράκλειτος Τημνῖται.
r.11   Διονυσίου
r.12   Μητροδώρου
r.13   Βακχίου
r.14   Καλλίστας
r.15   Σιμωνίδου
r.16   [Πολυ]κ[ράτους]
r.17   Ἡρακλείδου
r.18   Νουμηνίου
r.19   Ἡρακλείτου
r.20   Λύσιος
r.21   Ἀνδροσθένους

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Ptolemy, year 40, in the month Gorpiaios, in the priesthood of Menelaos son of Lagos. Deed and agreement. The following dispositions were made by Dionysios of Temnos for Kallista of Temnos, his own wife. If anything happens to Dionysios, he leaves all his property to Kallista, and she is to have authority
2     over all the property as long as she lives. And if anything happens to Kallista while Dionysios lives,
3     Dionysios is to have authority over the property. And if anything happens to Dionysios, let him leave the property
4     to all his own sons; and likewise also Kallista, if anything happens to her, let her leave the property to all the sons, except for the shares which Bakchios, Herakleides, and Metrodoros may receive from Dionysios and Kallista by working while the father and the mother are alive. But when Bakchios, Herakleides, and Metrodoros have married and been established, let the property of Dionysios and Kallista be common to all the sons; and if Dionysios or Kallista, while living, fall into want or owe a debt,
5     let all the sons together support them and jointly pay off the debts. And if any of them
6     is unwilling either to support or to help pay or to share in burying them, let him forfeit one thousand drachmas of silver,
7     and the right of exaction shall be from the one who is disorderly and does not act according to what is written. And if
8     Dionysios or Kallista leave any debt, the sons are permitted not to take possession, if they do not wish, after the death of Dionysios and Kallista. And let this deed be valid wholly and altogether,
9     wherever it is produced, as though the transaction had been made there. They placed the deed of their own will with Herakleitos as keeper of the deed. Witnesses: Polykrates the Arcadian, Androsthenes the Coan,
10    Noumenios the Cretan, Simonides of Maroneia, Lysis (son of) Herakleitos, of Temnos.
11    (Of) Dionysios.
12    (Of) Metrodoros.
13    (Of) Bakchios.
14    (Of) Kallista.
15    (Of) Simonides.
16    (Of) [Poly]k[rates].
17    (Of) Herakleides.
18    (Of) Noumenios.
19    (Of) Herakleitos.
20    (Of) Lysis.
21    (Of) Androsthenes.
