[META]
id:       P.ENTEUX 60
label:    P.ENTEUX 60
name:     Contract — Kaminoi (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     218 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Kaminoi (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Kaminoi (Arsinoites) (218 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Idomeneus an den König — mutwillige Überschwemmung der Aussaat — Reklamation einer Entschädigung — Zahlung der Pacht durch die Beklagten
tm:       3335
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.enteux;;60
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Ἰδομενεύς, τῶν ἀπὸ τῆς Χρυσέρμου δωρεᾶς γεωργῶν, ἐκ κώμης
r.2    Καμίνων. ἀδικοῦμαι ὑπὸ Πετοβάστιος τοῦ Ταῶτος καὶ Ὥ[ρ]ου τοῦ Κελεήσιος, τῶν ἐκ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης. ἐμοῦ γὰρ μισθωσαμένου ἀπὸ τῆς Χρ[υ]σέρμου δωρεᾶς … ἀρούρας β καὶ κατασπείραντός μου
r.3    τὴν γῆν ἀράκωι, Πετοβάστις καὶ Ὧρος οἱ πρ[ο]γεγραμμένοι κατέκλυσάνμου τὸν σπόρον, ὥστε
r.4    ἀχρεῖον μου γενέσθαι τὸν ἄρακον, καὶ μὴ δύνασθαι μηδὲ τὰ ἀνηλώματα τὰ γενόμενα εἰς τὴν [γῆν]
r.5    κομίσασθαί με. δέομαι οὖν σου, βασιλεῦ, εἴ σοι δοκεῖ, προστάξαι Διοφάνει τῶι στρατηγῶι γράψα[ι]
r.6    Ἡφαιστίωνι τῶι ἐπιστάτηι ἀποστεῖλαι Πετοβάστιν καὶ Ὧρον τοὺς ἐγκε[κ]λημένους εἰς Κροκοδίλων πόλιν, ὅπως διακριθῶ αὐτοῖς ἐπὶ Διοφάνους, καί, ἐὰν ἐνδείξωμαι αὐτοὺς κατακεκλυκότας μου τὸν σπόρον, ἐπαναγκασθῆναι αὐτοὺς τὸν ἐμὸν σπόρον ἀναλαβεῖν καὶ τάξασθαι αὐτοὺς τὰ ἐκφόρια, ἀπὸ δὲ ἧς αὐτοὶ γεωργοῦσιν γῆς ἀντιδοθῆναί μοι τὸ ἴσον πλῆθος ἀνθʼ ἧς κα[τ]ακεκλύκασιν. τούτου γὰρ γενομένου, ἐπὶ σὲ καταφυγών, βασιλεῦ, τά τε ἐκφόρια Χρυσέρμωι δυ[ν]ήσομαι
r.7    ἀποδοῦναι, ἐγώ τε ἔσομαι τῆς παρὰ σοῦ φιλανθρωπίας τετευχώς. εὐτύχει.
r.8    Ἡφαιστίωνι. μάλιστα διάλυσον αὐτούς· εἰ δὲ μή, ἀπόστειλον πρὸς ἐκ τῆς ι τοῦ Χοίαχ ὅπως
r.9    διακριθῶσιν ἐπὶ τοῦ καθήκοντος κριτηρίου.
r.10   ἔτους δ, Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κθ.
r.11   ἔτους δ, Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κθ.
r.12   Ἰδομενεύς, γεωργὸς τῆς Χρυσέρμου δωρεᾶς, πρὸς Πετοβάστιν
r.13   καὶ Ὧρον περὶ κατακλυσμοῦ γῆς.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To King Ptolemy, greeting from Idomeneus, one of the farmers belonging to the estate of Chrysermos, from the village
2     of Kaminoi. I am being wronged by Petobastis son of Taos and Horos son of Keleesis, men from the same village. For when I had leased from the estate of Chrysermos … 2 arouras and had sown
3     the land with chickling-vetch, Petobastis and Horos, the aforewritten men, flooded my crop, so that
4     my chickling-vetch became useless, and I could not even recover the expenses incurred on the [land].
5     I therefore beg you, O king, if it seem good to you, to order Diophanes the strategos to write
6     to Hephaistion the epistates to send Petobastis and Horos, the accused men, to Krokodilon polis, so that I may be judged with them before Diophanes, and, if I prove that they flooded my crop, that they be compelled to take over my crop and to undertake the rents, and that from the land which they themselves farm an equal quantity be given to me in place of that which they flooded. For when this is done, having taken refuge with you, O king, I shall be able to pay the rents to Chrysermos,
7     and I shall have obtained your benevolence. Farewell.
8     To Hephaistion. By all means reconcile them; but if not, send them to (me) by the 10th of Choiach so that
9     they may be judged before the proper tribunal.
10    Year 4, Daisios 27, Hathyr 29.
11    Year 4, Daisios 27, Hathyr 29.
12    Idomeneus, farmer of the estate of Chrysermos, against Petobastis
13    and Horos concerning the flooding of land.
