[META]
id:       P.ENTEUX 54
label:    P.ENTEUX 54
name:     Contract — Bakchias (Arsinoites, Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     218 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Bakchias (Arsinoites, Ägypten)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Bakchias (Arsinoites, Ägypten) (218 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Petoys an den König — Gültigkeit eines Vertrages (Pacht, Land) — trotz unterbliebener Siegelung — die auch später von den Verpächtern verweigert wurde
tm:       3329
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.enteux;;54
lat:      29.536946
lon:      31.0041595

[GREEK]
r.1    [βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Πετῶυς ] … ῆτος ἱερ[εὺς Σ]οκνοκονίος, τῶν κατοικούντων ἐν Βακχιάδι.
r.2    ἀδικούμαι ὑπὸ Λαχάρους κα[ὶ Ἀ]λεξάνδρου τοῦ υἱοῦ α[ὐ]τοῦ, τῶν ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀσίας στρατιωτῶν.
r.3    συγγραψάμενοι γάρ μοι συγγραφὴν μισθώσεως κατὰ τῶν κλήρων αὐτῶν ἐν τῶι Χοίαχ μηνὶ καὶ τῶν μαρτύρων ἐπιγραφέντων, συνέβη ὑπὸ τῆς ὥρας ἐκκλεισθέντας ἀσφ[ρ]άγιστον τεθῆναι αὐτὴν παρὰ Ζωπύρωι τῶι
r.4    μονογράφωι· μετὰ δὲ ταῦτα, ταξάμενοί μοι ἐπὶ Διονυσίου δώσειν εἰς σπέρμα πυρῶν ἀρτάβας ι[α],
r.5    ἐφʼ ὧι ἀποδώσω αὐτοῖς ἡμιόλιον ἅμα τοῖς ἐκφορ[ί]οις, ἐμοῦ δὲ λαβόντος τὰς ια ἀρτάβας καὶ κατασπείραντος, παρήγαγόν με οὐ βουλόμενοι σφραγίσασθαι τὴν συγγραφήν· ἐμοῦ δὲ ἐντυχόντος
r.6    κατʼ αὐτῶν Στρατίωι τῶι ἐπιστάτηι, οὐδένα λόγον ἐποιήσαντο, ἀλλὰ ἐγβεβλήκασίν με
r.7    ἐκ τῶν κλήρων. δέομαι οὖν σου, βασιλεῦ, προστάξαι Διοφάνει τῶι στρατηγῶι γράψαι Στρατίωι τῶι ἐπιστάτηι ἀποστεῖλαι αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ Διοφάνην διακριθησομένους μοι καί, ἐὰν ἦι
r.8    ἀληθῆ, μὴ ἐπιτρέπειν αὐτοῖς ἐγβάλλειν με ἐκ τῶν κλήρων, ἕως δὲ τοῦ διέξοδον λαβεῖν
r.9    τὴν κρίσιν μὴ θερίζειν αὐτούς. τούτου γὰρ γενομένου, ἔσομαι, βασιλεῦ, τῆς παρὰ σοῦ βοηθείας
r.10   τετευχώς. εὐτύχει.
r.11   Στρατίωι. μάλιστα διάλυσον αὐτούς· εἰ δὲ μή, ἀπόστειλον ἡμ [ὅπως ἐ]πὶ τοῦ καθήκοντος κριτηρίου διακριθῶσιν.
r.12   ἔτους δ, Δίου γ, Φαμενὼθ κζ.
r.13   ἔτους δ, Δίου γ, Φαμενὼθ κζ.
r.14   Πετῶυς … ῆτος πρὸς
r.15   Λαχάρην καὶ Ἀλέξανδρον
r.16   περὶ κλήρων.

[TRANSLATION]
1     [To king Ptolemy, greeting, Petous] son of …es, priest of Soknokonnis, of those dwelling in Bakchias.
2     I am wronged by Lachares and Alexandros his son, of the soldiers from Asia.
3     For having drawn up with me a contract of lease concerning their allotments in the month Choiach, and the witnesses having been registered, it happened that, being shut out by the (lateness of the) hour, it was deposited unsealed with Zopyros the
4     notary; and after this, having agreed with me in the presence of Dionysios to give me for the sowing of wheat 11 artabas,
5     on condition that I should repay them one and a half times (the amount) together with the rents, and I having taken the 11 artabas and sown (them), they cheated me, not wishing to seal the contract; and when I petitioned
6     against them before Stratios the epistates, they took no account of it, but have expelled me
7     from the allotments. I beg you, therefore, king, to give orders to Diophanes the strategos to write to Stratios the epistates to send them before Diophanes to be judged with me and, if it is
8     true, not to permit them to expel me from the allotments, and until the trial has reached its conclusion
9     not to let them reap. For if this happens, I shall, king, have obtained the help that comes from you.
10    Farewell.
11    To Stratios. Above all settle them; but if not, send … so that [they may] be judged before the appropriate tribunal.
12    Year 4, Dios 3, Phamenoth 27.
13    Year 4, Dios 3, Phamenoth 27.
14    Petous son of …es against
15    Lachares and Alexandros
16    concerning allotments.
