[META]
id:       P.ENTEUX 32
label:    P.ENTEUX 32
name:     Petition — Pharbaithos (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     218 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pharbaithos (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Pharbaithos (Arsinoites) (218 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Theon und Teutios an den König — als Vormünder der Tochter eines Verstorbenen klagen sie gegen Verwandte — die einen Teil des Erbes (Gegenstände) an sich genommen haben und ihnen verpfändetes Gut nicht zurückgeben
tm:       3307
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.enteux;;32
lat:      30.734257
lon:      31.620556

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Θέων καὶ Τεύτιος Φιλίππου, Μακεδόνες τῆς ἐπιγονῆς, ἐκ Φαρβαίθου.
r.2    ἀδικούμεθα ὑπὸ Θευδότου καὶ Ἀγάθωνος, οἵ εἰσιν οἰκεῖοι τῆς μητρὸς Φιλίππου τοῦ τετελευτηκότος. ἡμῶν γὰρ ἐπιτρόπων ὄντων Φιλίππης, τῆς θυγατρὸς Φιλίππου, ἐπιζητοῦντές τινα
r.3    μέρη τῶν καταλειφθέντων ὑπαρχόντων ὑπὸ Φιλίππου, εὑρίσκομεν τοὺς προειρημένους ἐξενηνοχότας, ὧν τὸ καθʼ ἓν ἐνδειξόμεθα ἐπὶ [Φ]ιλώτου τοῦ ἐπιστάτου. καὶ ἐνδεεῖς δὲ γενόμενοι εἰς
r.4    τὴν ταφὴν τὴν Φιλίππου δραχμῶν κε, ἐδώκαμεν τὰ κατάφρακτα καὶ τὸν ὑποδύτην καὶ τὴν ἐφαπτίδα, σὺν τῆι σακκοπήραι ἐν ἧι ἐνῆν, Ἀγάθωνι τῶι προειρημένωι ἐνέχυρα θεῖναι· βουλομένων δὲ ἡμῶν κομίσασθαι τὰ ἐνέχυρα, ἀποδιδόντες τὸ ἐπʼ αὐτοῖς δεδομένα καὶ τὸν
r.5    τόκον, οὐκ ἀποδίδωσιν ἡμῖν ἀλλὰ παρέλκει. δεόμεθα οὖν σου, βασιλεῦ, εἴ σοι δοκεῖ,
r.6    προστάξαι Διοφάνει τῶι στρατηγῶι γράψαι Φιλώται τῶι ἐπιστάτηι, ἐὰν ἦι ἀληθῆ
r.7    τὰ διὰ τῆς ἐντεύξεως γεγραμμένα, ἐπαναγκάσαι Φιλώταν τὸν Θεύδοτον καὶ Ἀγάθωνα τά τε ἐξενεχθέντα ἀποδοῦναι ἡμῖν, ἃ ἂν ἐνδειξώμεθα, καὶ [τὰ] ἐνέχυρα κομισάμενον
r.8    Ἀγάθωνα τό τε κεφάλαιον καὶ τὸν τόκον ἀποδοῦναι ἡμῖν, ἵνα ἐπὶ σὲ καταφυγόντες, βασιλεῦ, τὸν
r.9    πάντων βοηθὸν κ[α]ὶ εὐεργέτην, τοῦ δικαίου τύχωμεν, ἡ δὲ ὀρφαν[ὴ μὴ] ἀδικηθῆ[ι].
r.10   εὐτύχει.
r.11   Φιλώται. μάλιστα διάλυσον αὐτούς· εἰ δὲ μή, ἀπόστειλον πρὸς ἡμᾶς ἐκ τῆς ι τοῦ Χοίαχ
r.12   ὅπως ἐπὶ τοῦ καθήκοντος δικαστηρίου διακριθῶσιν. ἔτους [δ], Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κη.
r.13   ἔτους δ, Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κη.
r.14   Θέω[ν κ]αὶ Τεύτιος πρὸς Θεύδοτον
r.15   καὶ Ἀγ[άθω]να περὶ ἐνεχύρων.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To King Ptolemy, greeting from Theon and Teutios, sons of Philippos, Macedonians of the epigone, from Pharbaithos.
2     We are being wronged by Theudotos and Agathon, who are kinsmen of the mother of the deceased Philippos. For we, being guardians of Philippe, the daughter of Philippos, seeking out certain
3     parts of the property left by Philippos, find that the aforesaid men have carried them off, of which we will give a detailed account before Philotas the epistates. And having become in need, for
4     the burial of Philippos, of 25 drachmas, we gave the cuirasses and the under-garment and the cloak, together with the saddle-bag in which they were, to the aforesaid Agathon to hold as a pledge; and when we wished to recover the pledges, paying back what had been given on their security and the
5     interest, he does not give them back to us but puts us off. We therefore beg you, O king, if it seem good to you,
6     to order Diophanes the strategos to write to Philotas the epistates, if the things
7     written through this petition are true, to compel Philotas to constrain Theudotos and Agathon both to give back to us the things carried off, whatever we may indicate, and that Agathon, having recovered the pledges,
8     give back to us both the capital and the interest, so that, having taken refuge with you, O king, the
9     helper and benefactor of all, we may obtain justice, and that the orphan girl may not be wronged.
10    Farewell.
11    To Philotas. By all means reconcile them; but if not, send them to us by the 10th of Choiach
12    so that they may be judged before the proper court. Year [4], Daisios 27, Hathyr 28.
13    Year 4, Daisios 27, Hathyr 28.
14    Theon and Teutios against Theudotos
15    and Agathon concerning pledges.
