[META]
id:       P.ENTEUX 59
label:    P.ENTEUX 59
name:     Contract — Magdola (Arsinoites, Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     222 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Magdola (Arsinoites, Ägypten)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Magdola (Arsinoites, Ägypten) (222 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Theodotos — Gaddaios und Phanias an den König — Erfüllung des Vertrages (Pacht, Land) — durch den Verpächter — Bewässerung
tm:       3334
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.enteux;;59
lat:      29.132354
lon:      30.588404

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Θεόδοτος, Γαδδαῖος, Φανίας. ἀδικούμεθα ὑπὸ Δημητρίου τινός. μισθώσας γὰρ ἡμῖν τὸν Νικίου κλῆρον καὶ Ἀσκληπιάδου τριακονταρούρων οὓς ἔχουσιν περὶ κώμην Ἡρακλέαν τῆς Θεμίστου μερίδος, εἰς ἔτη β, ἐφʼ ὧι ἄρξει τῆς μισθώσεως ὁ σπόρος ὁ ἐν τῶι κε ἔτει εἰς τὸ κϛ ἔτος, ἐκφορίου τὴν ἄρουραν ἑκάστην πυρῶν ἀρταβῶν γ, τὸ δεύτερον ἔτος πυρῶν ἀρταβῶν γ 𐅵, καὶ τῆς συγγραφῆς τῆς μισθώσεως διαγορευούσης ἀκίνδυνον
r.2    πλὴν ἀβρόχου καὶ καταβρόχου, ἡ δυνατὴ σπαρῆναι ἕως Χοίαχ ι, τὴν δὲ μὴ δυνατὴν σπαρῆναι ἕως ι
r.3    τοῦ Χοίαχ, παραλαβόντα[ς] Δημήτριον καὶ ἄλλους κοινοὺς ἄνδρας γ· ἡμῶν δὲ παραλαμβανόντων
r.4    Δημήτριον ὅπως παραδείξωμεν αὐτῶι τὴν μὴ δυνατὴν σπαρῆναι, οὐ προσέσχηκεν ἡμῶν, βουλόμενος παρασυνγραφεῖν, τὰ δὲ ὅρια ἡμῖν ἃ παρέδειξεν ἐφʼ οἷς συγγεγράμμεθα οὐ βεβαιοῖ. δέομεθά σου,
r.5    βασιλεῦ, προστάξαι Διοφάνηι τῶι στρατηγῶι γράψαι Μελεάγρωι τῶι ἐπιστ[άτ]ηι κώμης Βουβάστου ἀποστεῖλαι τὸν Δημήτριον ἐπὶ Δι[ο]φάνην τὸν στρατηγὸν καί,
r.6    ἐὰν ἐνδειξώμεθα τὰ διὰ τῆς ἐντεύξεως ὄντα ἀληθῆ, ἐπαναγκάσαι αὐτὸν τὸ δίκαιον ἡμῖν ὑποσχεῖν. τούτου δὲ γενομένου,
r.7    ἐσόμεθα τοῦ δικαίου τετευχότες. εὐτύχει.
r.8    Μελεάγρωι. μάλιστα μὲν δ[ιάλ]υσον αὐτούς· εἰ δὲ μή, πρὸς ἡμᾶς ἀπόστειλον ὅπως ἐπισκεψώμεθα. ἔτους κε, Λώιου κϛ, Χοίαχ ιγ.
r.9    ἔτους κε, Λώιου κϛ, Χοίαχ ιγ.
r.10   Θεόδοτος, Γαδδαῖος, Φανίας
r.11   πρὸς Δημήτριον περὶ μισθώσεως
r.12   κλήρου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To King Ptolemy, greeting, from Theodotos, Gaddaios, Phanias. We are being wronged by a certain Demetrios. For having leased to us the allotment of Nikias and Asklepiades, thirty-aroura men, which they hold near the village of Heraklea in the division of Themistos, for 2 years, on the condition that the lease should begin with the sowing in the 25th year for the 26th year, at a rent of 3 artabas of wheat per aroura, and in the second year 3½ artabas of wheat, and the contract of the lease specifying (the land) free from risk
2     except for unwatered and waterlogged land, that which can be sown up to Choiak 10, and that which cannot be sown up to the 10th
3     of Choiak, with Demetrios and three other common men being brought in; but when we brought in
4     Demetrios in order to point out to him the land that could not be sown, he paid no heed to us, wishing to act contrary to the contract, and the boundaries which he pointed out to us on which we made the contract he does not confirm. We beg you,
5     O king, to command Diophanes the strategos to write to Meleagros the epistates of the village of Boubastos to send Demetrios to Diophanes the strategos, and,
6     if we demonstrate that the matters in the petition are true, to compel him to render us justice. And when this is done,
7     we shall have obtained justice. Farewell.
8     To Meleagros. By all means settle them; but if not, send them to us so that we may investigate. Year 25, Loios 26, Choiak 13.
9     Year 25, Loios 26, Choiak 13.
10    Theodotos, Gaddaios, Phanias
11    against Demetrios concerning the lease
12    of an allotment.
