[META]
id:       P.ENTEUX 15
label:    P.ENTEUX 15
name:     Petition — Magdola (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     218 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Magdola (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Magdola (Arsinoites) (218 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Hipponikos an den König — Bitte um Erneuerung der Hypothek auf einen geerbten Weinberg im Namen des Verstorbenen — da der Petent zu jung ist
tm:       3292
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.enteux;;15
lat:      29.132354
lon:      30.588404

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεῖ Πτολεμαίωι χαίρειν Ἱππόνικος Ἱππονίκου, Μακεδὼν τῆς ἐπιγονῆς. Ἑρμίας
r.2    ὁ ἀδελφός μου τελευτῶν καταλείπει μοι ἀμπελῶνα περὶ Θεογονίδα κατὰ διαθήκην … π … το … , ἐφ ὧι ἐπεδεδάνειστο παρὰ Ἱππονίκου, Ἀρκάδος, τῆς τῶν Θεσσαλῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων Ἑλλήνων ἱππαρχίας ἑβδομηκονταρούρου, χαλκοῦ δραχμὰς Γ. τοῦ δὲ χρόνου τοῦ κατὰ τὴν ὑποθήκην ἐπιγύου ὄντος, ἐπιχωρεῖ ἡμῖν ὁ δανείσας Ἱππόνικος συνανανεώσασθαι,
r.3    ἐγὼ δὲ νεώτερός εἰμι. δέομαι οὖν σου, βασιλεῦ, εἴ σοι δοκεῖ, προστάξαι Διοφάνει τῶι
r.4    στρατηγῶι γράψαι Μόσχωι τῶι ἀγορανόμωι προσδέξασθαι τὴν ἀνανέωσιν παρὰ
r.5    τοῦ Ἱππονίκου ἐκ τοῦ Ἑρμίου τοῦ τετελευτηκότος ὀνόματος, ἵνα μὴ συμβῆι, νεωτέρου μου ὄντος, ἐπικαταβολὴν γενέσθαι τοῦ ἀμπελῶνος καὶ ἀποστερηθῶ πλείονος ἀξίου ὄντος, ἀλλʼ ἐπὶ σέ, βασιλεῦ, καταφυγών, τὸν πάντων κοινὸν εὐεργέτην,
r.6    τῶν εὐγνωμόνων τύχω. εὐτύχει.
r.7    Μόσχωι. ἐὰν ποιῆται τὴν ἀνανέωσιν ἐκ τοῦ τετε[λευτ]ηκ[ότο]ς ὀ[νό]ματος … εξαι κατὰ τοὺς νόμους καὶ τὰ [δι]αγράμματα
r.8    καὶ τὰ προστάγματα εἰ μὴ τί ἐστιν αλλ … ει … εις … κ … μεν … ς λυθ … ς …
r.9    ἔτους δ, Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κθ.
r.10   ἔτους δ, Δαισίου κζ, Ἁθὺρ κθ
r.11   Ἱππόνικος Ἱππονίκου
r.12   Μακεδὼν περὶ ὧν ἀξιοῖ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To king Ptolemy, greeting, Hipponikos son of Hipponikos, Macedonian of the Epigone. Hermias
2     my brother, when dying, left to me by his will a vineyard near Theogonis … , on which he had borrowed from Hipponikos, an Arcadian, of the cavalry-regiment of the Thessalians and the other Greeks, a holder of seventy arouras, three thousand drachmas of bronze. And since the term of the mortgage is near expiry, Hipponikos the lender grants us to renew the loan together,
3     but I am a minor. I therefore beg you, O king, if it seems good to you, to order Diophanes the
4     strategos to write to Moschos the agoranomos to accept the renewal from
5     Hipponikos in the name of Hermias the deceased, so that it may not happen, while I am a minor, that a foreclosure be made upon the vineyard and I be deprived of property worth more, but that, having taken refuge with you, O king, the common benefactor of all,
6     I may obtain the consideration of the fair-minded. Farewell.
7     To Moschos: if he makes the renewal in the name of the deceased … in accordance with the laws and the decrees
8     and the ordinances, unless there is some … be it dissolved …
9     Year 4, Daisios 27, Hathyr 29.
10    Year 4, Daisios 27, Hathyr 29.
11    Hipponikos son of Hipponikos,
12    Macedonian, concerning what he requests.
