[META]
id:       P.FLOR 3.284
label:    P.FLOR 3.284
name:     Documentary papyrus — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    documents
date:     538 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (538 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Bürgschaft — Gestellung
tm:       19346
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.flor;3;284
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    χμγ
r.2    ὑπατείας Φλαυίου Ἰωάννου τοῦ ἐνδοξοτάτου, Φαῶφι α δευτέρας ἰνδικτίονος.
r.3    Κλαυδίῳ Ἀπολλῶτι αἰδεσίμῳ ῥιπαρίῳ κώμης Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου νομοῦ
r.4    παρὰ τῶν ἑξῆς ὑπογραφόντων ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης ἑκάστου ἐνεχομένου τῇ ἰδίᾳ ὑπογραφῇ.
r.5    ὁμολογοῦμεν ἐπομνύμενοι τόν τε παντοκράτορα θεὸν καὶ τὴν νίκην καὶ διαμονὴν τοῦ δεσπότου
r.6    ἡμῶν Φλαυίου Ἰουστινιανοῦ τοῦ αἰωνίου αὐγούστου αὐτοκράτορος ἐγγυᾶσθαι καὶ ἀναδεδέχθαι Ἄπα Πὼκ Ἀβρααμίου
r.7    ἐκ μητρὸς Ἀποστολίας ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης ἐπὶ τῷ αὐτὸν παραμεῖναι ἐν τῇ αὐτῇ κώμῃ καὶ μὴ
r.8    εὑρεθῆναι κατʼ αὐτὸν γενάμενον οἱῳδήποτε συναλ[λ]άγματι φανῆναι καὶ κρυφίᾳ
r.9    ἢ πλαστῇ ἢ οἱῳδήποτε σωλυτω ἢ σφάλματι ἀπρεπές· ὁπόταν δὲ ζητούμενος
r.10   παρὰ τῆς [ὑ]μῶν ἐντρεχείας, τοῦτον παρενεγκεῖν καὶ παραδώσομεν ὑμῖν ἐν δημοσίῳ
r.11   τόπῳ ἐκτὸς ἁγίων περιβόλων καὶ θείων χαρακτήρων καὶ ἁγίας κυριακῆς ἐν ᾧ παρειλήφαμεν
r.12   σχήματι. εἰ δὲ μὴ τοῦτο ποιήσειεν, ἑτοίμως ἔχομεν οἱ ἐγγυηταὶ παρασχεῖν ὑμῖν χρυσοῦ
r.13   νομίσματα δώ[δε]κα ἕκαστος πρὸς τὴν ὑπογραφὴν ἰδίῳ κινδύνῳ καὶ πόρῳ τῆς
r.14   ἡμῶν ὑποστάσεως. εἰς τοῦ[το] καὶ ἐφʼ ἅ[πα]ντα ὡμολογήσαμεν. Αὐρήλιος [Ἰ]ωσὴφ Φιοῦ …
r.15   ἐγγυῶμαι π … Αὐρήλιος Ἰωάννης
r.16   Ψοΐου ἐγγυῶμαι τὸν …
r.17   ἐγγύη γενομένη ὑπὲρ Παπῶτος

[TRANSLATION]
1     643 (chmg)
2     In the consulship of Flavius Ioannes, the most glorious, Phaophi 1 of the second indiction.
3     To Claudius Apollos, the revered riparius of the village of Aphrodite of the Antaiopolite nome,
4     from those subscribing below, from the same village of Aphrodite, each being bound by his own subscription.
5     We acknowledge, swearing by Almighty God and by the victory and survival of our master
6     Flavius Justinianus, the eternal Augustus, emperor, that we stand surety for and have undertaken (responsibility for) Apa Pok son of Abraamios,
7     whose mother is Apostolia, from the same village, on condition that he remain in the same village and not
8     be found, in (any matter) concerning him, having appeared in any kind of transaction, and in secret
9     or forged or any kind of (dishonest dealing?) or improper fault; and whenever he is sought
10    by your diligence, we shall produce him and hand him over to you in a public
11    place, outside holy precincts and divine sanctuaries (?) and the holy church, in the condition in which we received (him).
12    But if he does not do this, we the guarantors are ready to provide to you of gold
13    twelve solidi each, according to (his) subscription, at our own risk and from the resource of
14    our property. To this and to everything we have agreed. Aurelius Joseph son of Phiou…
15    I stand surety … Aurelius Ioannes
16    son of Psoios, I stand surety for the …
17    Surety made on behalf of Papos.
