[META]
id:       P.FLOR 3.281
label:    P.FLOR 3.281
name:     Contract — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     517 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (517 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Land
tm:       19343
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.flor;3;281
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    χμγ
r.2    ὑπατείας Φλαυίου Ἀναστασίου τοῦ εὐκλεεστάτ[ο]υ
r.3    Θὼθ ιζ ἑνδεκάτης ἰνδικτίονος.
r.4    Φλαυίῳ Πανολβίῳ αἰδεσίμῳ πολιτευομένῳ καὶ ῥ[ι]παρίῳ τῆς Ἀνταιοπολιτῶν υἱῷ τοῦ τῆς λαμπρᾶς μνήμης Ἰωάνν[ου] πολιτευσαμένου
r.5    παρὰ Αὐρηλίου Βίκτορος ἐκ πατρὸς Ψαίου ποιμέ[ν]ος ἀπὸ κώμης
r.6    Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ αὐτοῦ νομοῦ. ὁμολογῶ ἑκουσίως καὶ αὐθαιρέτως
r.7    μεμισθῶσθαι παρὰ τῆς σῆς λαμπρότητ[ο]ς πρὸς μόνον
r.8    τὸν παρόντα ἐνιαυτὸν κατασπορᾶς γενήματος σὺν θεῷ μελλούσης
r.9    δωδεκάτης ἰνδικτίονος τὰς ὑπαρχούσας αὐτῇ ἀρούρας ἐν τῷ καλουμένῳ
r.10   Σαραπά[μ]μωνος ἀνύδρους οὖσας διακειμέ[ν]ας ἐν τῇ πεδιάδι
r.11   κώμης Φθλα ἐκ λιβὸς τῶν γῃδίων τῶν [κ]ληρονόμων τοῦ μακαρίου
r.12   Ἰωάννου Τριφιοδώρου ἀκολούθως ταῖς φαινο[μ]έναις γειτνί[α]ις ἐφʼ ᾧ με
r.13   τὴν πᾶσαν γεωργικὴν ἐργασίαν ποιήσασθαι καὶ διδόναι
r.14   τὸν φόρον τῇ σῇ λαμπρότητι ἑκάστης ἀρούρης πρὸς ἀναμέτρησιν
r.15   τοῦ σχοινίου φακοῦ ἀρτάβας δύο καὶ ἀράκου ἀρτάβας δύο ἐνλιμναζομένων μόνον τῷ φορικῷ σῷ μέτρῳ ἀναμφιλόγως. ἡ μ[ί]σθωσις κυρία
r.16   καὶ βεβαία καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρήλιος Βίκτωρ Ψαίου
r.17   ποιμὴν ὁ προκείμενος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται Αὐρήλιος Προμαὼς Βησκούιτος
r.18   ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος. Φλαύιος Θεότεκνος Ψαίου ἀποπραιποσίτου μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας παρὰ τοῦ θεμένου.
r.19   ἐγράφη διʼ ἐμοῦ Οὐίκτορος Ἀπολλ
r.20   … μισθώσεως γεναμένης παρὰ Βίκτορος Ψαίου …

[TRANSLATION]
1     643 (= chmg, Christian symbol).
2     In the consulship of Flavius Anastasius the most glorious,
3     Thoth 17, of the eleventh indiction.
4     To Flavius Panolbios, the venerable, councillor and riparius of the Antaiopolite, son of Ioannes of illustrious memory, a former councillor,
5     from Aurelius Victor, son of Psais, a shepherd, from the village of
6     Aphrodite of the same nome. I acknowledge willingly and of my own free choice
7     that I have leased from your splendor, for only
8     the present year of the coming harvest, with God, of the
9     twelfth indiction, the arouras belonging to her (your splendor) in the (place) called
10    Sarapammon's, which are waterless, lying in the plain
11    of the village of Phthla, west of the small plots of the heirs of the blessed
12    Ioannes son of Triphiodoros, in accordance with the apparent neighboring boundaries, on condition that I
13    perform all the agricultural labor and pay
14    the rent to your splendor, for each aroura, by the measurement
15    of the cord, two artabas of lentils and two artabas of vetch, only such (land) as is flooded, by your rent-measure, without dispute. The lease is valid
16    and secure, and on being formally questioned I gave my assent. I, Aurelius Victor son of Psais,
17    shepherd, the aforesaid, have leased as aforesaid. I, Aurelius Promaos son of Beskouis,
18    having been requested, wrote on his behalf, as he does not know letters. I, Flavius Theoteknos son of Psais, ex-praepositus, bear witness to the lease, having heard it from the contracting party.
19    Written through me, Victor son of Apoll…
20    … a lease having been made by Victor son of Psais …
