[META]
id:       P.FLOR 1.1
label:    P.FLOR 1.1
name:     Contract — Hermopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     153 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Hermopolis (153 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Staatsnotariat — Hypothek — Bank — Diagraphe
tm:       23525
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.flor;1;1
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ἑκκαιδεκάτου Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Τίτου Αἰλίου Ἁδριανοῦ Ἀντωνίνου Σεβαστοῦ Εὐσεβοῦς μηνὸς Ἀρτεμεισίου Φαμενὼθ κη ἐν Ἑρμοῦ πόλει τῇ μεγάλῃ ἐδάν[ε]ισεν Ἑρμιόνη Εὐδαίμονος ἀστὴ ὡς ἐτῶν ιθ μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς πατρὸς
r.2    Εὐδαίμονος Σαραπίωνος τοῦ Διονυσίου Σωσικοσμίου τοῦ καὶ Ἀλθαιέως ὡς ἐτῶν ξζ βεβλαμμένου τὸν ἀριστερὸν ὀφθαλμὸν Πτολέμᾳ τῇ καὶ Τβήσει Ὡρίων[ο]ς τοῦ Ἑρμίου μητρὸς Δημητρίας τῆς καὶ Τερεῦτος Ὡρίωνος Ἑρμοπολείτιδι ἀναγραφομένῃ ἐπὶ Φρου[ρ]ίου λιβὸς ὡς ἐτῶν λ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ μέσῳ μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ πατρὸς
r.3    Ὡρίωνος Ἑρμίου ὡς ἐτῶν νδ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ ἐξ ἀριστερῶν ἀργυρίου Σεβαστοῦ νομίσματος κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας , ἃς ἀνῄρηται ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη παρὰ τῆς δεδαν[ε]ικυίης διʼ ἐπιτηρητῶν τραπέζης, τόκου δραχμιαίου ἑκάστης μνᾶς κατὰ μῆνα ἕκαστον ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ μῆνας εἰκοσιτέσσαρας συναγομένων τοῦ τόκου δραχμῶν τεσσεράκοντα ὀκτὼ πάσας ἐφʼ ὑποθήκῃ τῷ ὑπάρχοντι τῇ δεδαν[ε]ισμένῃ λοιπῷ βίκῳ ἑνὶ τετάρτῳ ἀπὸ ἐλαιουργ[ε]ίου ἀργοῦ καὶ καμάρας καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ ἀνηκόντων πάντων ἐν κώμῃ Τεκερκεθώθει τοῦ Λευκοπυργείτου κάτω μετὰ τοὺς πεπραμένο[υ]ς ἐκ τῶν αὐτῶν τόπων. γείτονες δὲ ὡς ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη ὑπηγόρευσεν νότου δημοσία ῥύμη διʼ ἧς εἴσοδος καὶ ἔξοδος βορρᾶ κληρονόμων Παθώτου Φίβιος ἀπηλιώτου ὁδὸς λιβὸς Δημητρίας τῆς
r.4    καὶ Τερεῦτος Ὡρίωνος· τὸ δὲ δάν[ε]ιον τὰς τοῦ κεφαλαίου καὶ τόκου ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας τεσσεράκοντα ὀκτὼ ἀποδότω ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη τῇ δεδαν[ε]ικυίῃ ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτῆς πλη[ρ]ωθείσης τῆς διετίας παραχρῆμα ἀργύριον δόκιμον νομιτευόμενον ἀρεστόν· ἐὰν δὲ μὴ ἀποδοῖ τῆς προθεσμίας ἐνστάσης εὐθέως
r.5    ἐξέστω τῇ δεδαν[ε]ικυίῃ ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτῆς μὴ προσδεομένοις ἀνανεώσεως ἢ διαστολικοῦ ἢ ἑτέρου τινὸς ἁπλῶς, ταξαμένοις τὰ εἰς τὸ ἐνκύκλιον καθήκοντα τέλη ἐπικαταβολὴν ποιήσα[σθ]αι
r.6    τοῦ ὑποτεθειμένου ὡς πρόκειται βίκου ἑνὸς τετάρτου καὶ κτᾶσθαι αὐτὴν καὶ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτῆς τοῦτο[ν] κυρίως ἀντὶ τῶν [ὀ]φει[λομ]έ[ν]ων καὶ ἐμβατεύειν εἰς αὐτὸν καὶ εἰσοικίζειν καὶ ἐνοικολογεῖν καὶ διαμισθοῦν καὶ ἀποφέρεσθαι τὰ ἐξ αὐτοῦ περιεσόμενα πάντα εἰς τὸ ἴδιον ἔτι δὲ καὶ χρᾶσθαι καὶ οἰκονομεῖν περὶ αὐτοῦ καθʼ ὃν
r.7    ἐὰν αἱρῶνται τρόπον ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον μηδενὸς τῇ δεδαν[ε]ισμένῃ μηδʼ ἄλλῳ ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς ἐξ ὑστέρου ἁπλῶς πε[ρ]ὶ τούτου καταλειπομένου λόγου ἢ παρευρέσεως· βεβαιούτω δὲ ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη τήνδε τὴν ὑποθήκην πάσῃ βεβαίωσει ἀπό τε δημοσίων και ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ ἀπὸ πάντων ἁπλῶς ἣν καὶ μὴ ἐξέστω [α]ὐτῇ
r.8    πωλεῖν μηδʼ ἑτέροις ὑποτίθεσ[θ]αι μηδʼ ἄλλο τι περὶ αὐτῆς κακοτεχνεῖν ὑπεναντίον τούτοις τρόπῳ μηδενὶ ἢ τὰ παρὰ ταῦτα ἄκυρα εἶναι· ἐὰν δέ τις κίνδυνος [γ]ένηται περὶ τήνδε τὴν ὑποθήκην πᾶσαν ἢ μέρος τρόπῳ ᾡτινιοῦν ἀποδότω ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη τῇ δεδαν[ε]ικυίῃ ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτῆς τὰ ὀφειλομένα πάντα καὶ τοῦ ὑπε[ρ]πεσόντος μετὰ τὴν προθεσμίαν χρόνου τόκον δραχμιαῖον ἑκάστης μνᾶς κατὰ μῆνα ἕκαστον καὶ ἃ ἐὰν ἀπαιτηθῇ ἡ δεδαν[ε]ικυῖα ὑπὲρ τῆσδε τῆς ὑποθήκης τέλη καὶ ἃς ἐὰν ποιήσηται δαπάνας ὁμοίως σὺν τόκοις ἕκαστα παραχρῆμα γεινομένης αὐτῇ ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτῆς τῆς πράξεως παρά
r.9    τε τῆς δεδαν[ε]ισμένης καὶ ἐκ [τ]ῆσδε τῆς ὑποθήκης καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἄλλων ὑπαρχόντων αὐτῇ πάντων καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης. ἡ συνγραφὴ κυρία. καὶ συνεχρηματίσθη ἡ δεδαν[ε]ισμένη ἐπιστειλάντων τῶν τῆς ἐγκτήσεως βιβλιοφυλάκων. Πτολ[έμ]α ἡ καὶ Τβῆσις Ὡρίωνος μετὰ κυρί[ου] τοῦ ἐμαυτῆς πατρὸς Ὡρίωνος Ἑρμίου δεδάν[ε]ισμαι παρὰ Ἑρμιόνης
r.10   Εὐδαίμονος ἀργυρίου κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας , ἃς ἀνῄρημαι διʼ ἐπιτη[ρ]ητῶν τραπέζης τόκου δραχμιαίου ἑκάστης μνᾶς κατὰ μῆνα ἕκαστον ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ μῆνας εἰκοσιτέσσαρας συναγο[μέν]ων τοῦ τόκου δραχμῶν τεσσεράκοντα ὀκτὼ πάσας ἐφʼ ὑποθήκῃ τῷ ὑπάρχοντί μοι λοιπῷ βίκῳ ἑνὶ
r.11   τετάρτῳ ἀπὸ ἐλαιουργ[ε]ίου ἀργοῦ καὶ καμάρας καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ ἀνηκόντων πάντων ἐν κώμῃ Τεκερθεθώθει τοῦ Λευκοπ[υργείτο]υ κάτω μετὰ τοὺς πεπραμένους τῶν αὐτῶν τόπων ἐπὶ ταῖς προκειμέναις γ[ε]ιτνίαις· το[ύ]του τοῦ κεφαλαίου καὶ τόκου ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας
r.12   τεσσεράκοντα ὀκτὼ ἀποδώσω πληρωθείσης τῆς διετίας καὶ βεβαιώσω καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι τοῖς προγραφεῖσιν. Ἑρμεῖνος Ἡρώδου ἔγραψα τὸ σῶμα τῆς ὑπογραφῆς.
r.13   … Ἑρ[μου]πολ
r.14   … δ … ολ
r.15   η … τῶν ϛ
r.16   … πυροῦ ἀρταβ γ …
r.17   φι … εγγε …
r.18   ευ … οιη το …
r.19   λα [Τβ]ήσει …
r.20   Πτολέμα ἡ καὶ [Τ]βῆσις Ὡρίωνος δεδάν[ε]ισμαι καθὼς πρόκιται. Ὡρίων Ἑρμίου ἐπιγέγραμμαι τῆς θυγατρός [μ]ου
r.21   κύριος καὶ ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μὴ εἰδυίης γράμματα. Ἑρμι[όνη] Εὐδαίμονος ἀστὴ εὐδοκῶ. Εὐδαίμων Σαραπίωνος Ἀλθαιέυς ἐπιγέγραμμαι τῆς θυγατρός μου κύριος καὶ ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μὴ εἰδυίης γράμματα.
r.22   … [ κ]εφαλ[αίο]υ
r.23   [Τβή]σει Ὡρ[ιωνο]ς
r.24   διὰ Εὐδαίμον[ο]ς Ἑρμαίου κεχρημάτισται ἐπιτηρου[μ]ένης τῆς ἀγορανομίας.
r.25   ἔτους ἑκκαιδεκάτου Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Τίτου
r.26   Αἰλίου Ἁδριανοῦ Ἀντωνείνου Σεβαστοῦ Εὐσεβοῦς Φαμενὼθ κη.
r.27   διαγραφὴ διʼ ἐπιτηρητῶν τραπέζης Ἑρμιόνη Εὐδαίμονος ἀστὴ μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ πατρὸς
r.28   Εὐδαίμονος Σαραπίωνος Πτολέμᾳ τῇ καὶ Τβήσ[ε]ι Ὡρίωνος τοῦ Ἑρμίου
r.29   μητρὸς Δημητρίας τῆς καὶ Τερεῦτος Ὡρίωνος ἀναγραφομένη ἐπὶ Φρουρίου λιβὸς
r.30   μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς πατρὸς Ὡρίωνος Ἑρμίου ἀργυρίου κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας,
r.31   γίνονται ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ σ ἀκολούθως τῇ ἀνενεχθησομένῃ διʼ ἀγορανομίου ἐν Ἑρμοῦ πόλει [συγγραφῇ] δανείου ὑποθήκῃ
r.32   τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος αὐτῇ λοιποῦ βίκου ἑνὸς τετάρτου ἀπὸ ἐλαιουργ[ε]ίου ἀργοῦ
r.33   καὶ καμάρας καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ ἀνηκόντων πάντων ἐν κώμῃ Τεκερκεθώθει.
r.34   Βησαρίων ὁ καὶ Εὐδαίμων ἐπιτηρητὴς σεσημείωμαι.
r.35   Πτολέμα ἡ καὶ Τβῆσις Ὡρίωνος τοῦ Ἑρμίου μητρὸς Δημητρίας τῆς
r.36   καὶ Τερεῦτος Ὡρίωνος Ἑρμοπολεῖτις ἀναγραφομένη ἐπὶ Φρουρίου λιβὸς μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ πατρὸς
r.37   [Ὡ]ρίωνος Ἑρμίου ἐπη[κ]ολούθηκα τῇ προκειμένῃ διαγραφῇ καὶ ἔχω χρῆσιν
r.38   κεφαλαίου ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας, γίνονται ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ σ ἀκολούθως τῇ ἀνενεχθησομένῃ διʼ ἀγορανομίου ἐν Ἑρμοῦ πόλει δανείου ὑποθήκῃ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος μοι
r.39   λοιποῦ βίκου ἑνὸς τετάρτου ἀπὸ ἐλαιουργ[ε]ίου καὶ καμάρας καὶ αὐλῆς
r.40   καὶ ἀνηκόντων πάντων ἐν κώμῃ Τεκερκεθώθει τοῦ Λευκοπυργείτου
r.41   κάτω ὡς πρόκειται. ἔτους ιϛ Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Τίτου Αἰλίου Ἁδριανοῦ
r.42   Ἀντωνίνου Σεβαστοῦ Εὐσεβοῦς Φαμενὼθ κη. Ἑρμεῖνος
r.43   Ἡρώδου ἔγραψα τὸ σῶμα τῆς ὑπογραφῆς. Πτολέμα ἡ καὶ Τβῆσις Ὡρίωνος ἔχω ὡς πρόκιται
r.44   Ὡρίων Ἑρμίου ἐπιγέγραμμαι
r.45   τῆς θυγατρός μου κύριος καὶ
r.46   ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μὴ εἰδυίης
r.47   γράμματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the sixteenth year of Imperator Caesar Titus Aelius Hadrianus Antoninus Augustus Pius, in the month Artemisios, Phamenoth 28, in Hermopolis the Great, Hermione daughter of Eudaimon, a townswoman, about 19 years old, with as guardian her own father
2     Eudaimon son of Sarapion son of Dionysios, of the Sosikosmian tribe and the Althaiean deme, about 67 years old, injured in the left eye, lent to Ptolema also called Tbesis, daughter of Horion son of Hermias, whose mother is Demetria also called Tereus daughter of Horion, a Hermopolite woman registered in the Phrourion-West quarter, about 30 years old, with a scar in the middle of her forehead, with as guardian her father
3     Horion son of Hermias, about 54 years old, with a scar on the left of his forehead, in imperial silver coinage two hundred drachmas of principal, which the borrower has received from the lender through the bank-overseers, at interest of one drachma per mina each month from the present day for twenty-four months, the interest amounting in all to forty-eight drachmas, on the security of the remaining one quarter of a wine-jar (storehouse?) belonging to the borrower, from an idle oil-press, and a vault and a court and all appurtenances, in the village of Tekerkethothis of the Lower Leukopyrgite, after those sold from the same places. The neighbors, as the borrower dictated: on the south a public lane through which is the entrance and exit, on the north (the property) of the heirs of Pathotes son of Phibis, on the east a road, on the west (the property) of Demetria
4     also called Tereus daughter of Horion. The borrower shall repay the loan, the two hundred forty-eight silver drachmas of principal and interest, to the lender or her agents when the two-year period is fulfilled, at once, in approved, current, acceptable silver; and if she does not repay when the term arrives, immediately
5     it shall be lawful for the lender or her agents, without need of further renewal or notice of demand or anything else whatsoever, having paid the dues belonging to the sales-tax (enkyklion), to make a supplementary payment
6     for the mortgaged remaining one quarter of the wine-jar as aforesaid, and for her and her agents to possess this lawfully in place of what is owed, and to enter upon it and take up residence and collect rents and lease it out and carry off all the proceeds from it for her own profit, and moreover to use it and manage it concerning it in whatever
7     way they may choose, for all time, no claim or pretext concerning this being left to the borrower nor to anyone else on her behalf hereafter whatsoever; and the borrower shall guarantee this mortgage with every guarantee against both public and private (claims) and against all simply, and it shall not be lawful for her
8     to sell it or mortgage it to others or to do any other fraud concerning it contrary to these terms in any way, or else the things done contrary to these shall be void; and if any risk should arise concerning this mortgage in whole or in part in any way whatsoever, the borrower shall repay to the lender or her agents all that is owed, and for the time overrunning the term, interest of one drachma per mina each month, and whatever dues the lender may be required to pay on behalf of this mortgage, and whatever expenses she may incur, likewise with interest, each item at once, the right of execution belonging to her or her agents
9     both against the borrower and out of this mortgage and out of all her other possessions, as by legal judgment. The contract is valid. And the borrower has had it officially drawn up, the keepers of the property-registry having so instructed. I, Ptolema also called Tbesis daughter of Horion, with as guardian my own father Horion son of Hermias, have borrowed from Hermione
10    daughter of Eudaimon two hundred silver drachmas of principal, which I have received through the bank-overseers, at interest of one drachma per mina each month from the present day for twenty-four months, the interest amounting in all to forty-eight drachmas, on the security of the remaining one quarter of a wine-jar belonging to me,
11    from an idle oil-press and a vault and a court and all appurtenances, in the village of Tekertethothis of the Lower Leukopyrgite, after those sold from the same places, on the aforesaid neighboring (boundaries); of this principal and interest, two hundred
12    forty-eight silver drachmas I shall repay when the two-year period is fulfilled, and I shall guarantee it, and I consent to all that is written above. I, Hermeinos son of Herodes, wrote the body of the subscription.
13    … Hermopol(is)
14    … d … ol
15    e … of the 6 (?)
16    … of wheat, 3 artabas …
17    phi … engge …
18    eu … oie to …
19    la … to Tbesis …
20    I, Ptolema also called Tbesis daughter of Horion, have borrowed as aforesaid. I, Horion son of Hermias, have been subscribed as guardian of my daughter
21    and have written on her behalf, as she does not know letters. I, Hermione daughter of Eudaimon, a townswoman, consent. I, Eudaimon son of Sarapion, of the Althaiean deme, have been subscribed as guardian of my daughter and have written on her behalf, as she does not know letters.
22    … of principal
23    to Tbesis daughter of Horion
24    through Eudaimon son of Hermaios it has been transacted, the agoranomy being under supervision.
25    In the sixteenth year of Imperator Caesar Titus
26    Aelius Hadrianus Antoninus Augustus Pius, Phamenoth 28.
27    Bank-transfer through the bank-overseers: Hermione daughter of Eudaimon, a townswoman, with as guardian her father
28    Eudaimon son of Sarapion, to Ptolema also called Tbesis, daughter of Horion son of Hermias,
29    whose mother is Demetria also called Tereus daughter of Horion, registered in the Phrourion-West quarter,
30    with as guardian her own father Horion son of Hermias, two hundred silver drachmas of principal,
31    total 200 silver drachmas, in accordance with the loan-with-mortgage contract to be registered through the agoranomeion in Hermopolis,
32    on the remaining one quarter of a wine-jar belonging to her, from an idle oil-press
33    and a vault and a court and all appurtenances, in the village of Tekerkethothis.
34    I, Besarion also called Eudaimon, overseer, have signed.
35    I, Ptolema also called Tbesis, daughter of Horion son of Hermias, whose mother is Demetria
36    also called Tereus daughter of Horion, a Hermopolite woman registered in the Phrourion-West quarter, with as guardian my father
37    Horion son of Hermias, have followed the aforesaid bank-transfer and have the loan
38    of two hundred silver drachmas of principal, total 200 silver drachmas, in accordance with the loan-with-mortgage contract to be registered through the agoranomeion in Hermopolis, on the
39    remaining one quarter of a wine-jar belonging to me, from an oil-press and a vault and a court
40    and all appurtenances, in the village of Tekerkethothis of the Lower Leukopyrgite,
41    as aforesaid. Year 16 of Imperator Caesar Titus Aelius Hadrianus
42    Antoninus Augustus Pius, Phamenoth 28. I, Hermeinos
43    son of Herodes, wrote the body of the subscription. I, Ptolema also called Tbesis daughter of Horion, have (it) as aforesaid.
44    I, Horion son of Hermias, have been subscribed
45    as guardian of my daughter and
46    have written on her behalf, as she does not know
47    letters.
