[META]
id:       P.FOUAD 1.87
label:    P.FOUAD 1.87
name:     Letter — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    letters
date:     501 CE – 600 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (501 CE – 600 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Bericht — Kloster — Verwaltung — Andreas an Georgios
tm:       37232
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.fouad;1;87
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    κατὰ τὴν δευτέραν τοῦ παρόντος μηνὸς Φαμενὼθ
r.2    κατέλαβεν τὸν ὅρμον τοῦ μοναστηρίου Ἀφροδιτοῦς ὁ μεγαλοπρεπέστατος
r.3    κόμες Ἰωάννης, πέμψας μοι γράμματα τῆς σῆς θεοφιλοῦς εὐτεκνίας,
r.4    καὶ ἐκ τούτων γνοὺς τὴν ῥῶσιν αὐτῆς, ἐδόξασα τὸν δεσπότην Θεὸν·
r.5    προετρεψάμην δὲ τὴν αὐτοῦ μεγαλοπρέπειαν ἀνελθεῖν εἰς τὰ
r.6    μοναστήρια καὶ ἐπισκέψασθαι τὴν τούτων διοίκησιν. οὐκ ἠνέσχετο
r.7    τέως τοῦτο ποιῆσαι, ἀλλ ὅμως ὡς ἐξήλθαμεν τῇ τρίτῃ ἕωθεν
r.8    εἰς τὸ κτῆμα τὸ λεγόμενον Περνίς, μετεστειλάμην αὐτὸν ἐκεῖσε,
r.9    ὀφείλων διαλεχθῆναι αὐτῷ τὰ εἰκότα ἰδιαζόντως πρὸ τοῦ ἀνάπλου
r.10   ἡμῶν, καὶ φθασάσης τῆς αὐτοῦ μεγαλοπρεπείας, κατέλαβον καὶ
r.11   οἱ εὐλαβέστατοι ἀδελφοὶ τοῦ μοναστηρίου Στρατονικίδος, κατακράζοντες Ἰερημίου τοῦ προεστῶτος, καὶ λέγοντες μυρίας βίας
r.12   περί τε τῆς ἀνατροπῆς τοῦ μοναστηρίου, περί τε τῶν τούτου χρεῶν
r.13   ἐπὶ τοῦ χρόνου τῆς διοικήσεως αὐτοῦ, καὶ ἀκούσας ὁ αὐτὸς μεγαλοπρεπέστατος
r.14   ἀνὴρ τὰ παρʼ αὐτῶν λεχθέντα, μάλιστα ὅτι οὐκ ὑπάρχει σήμερον
r.15   τῷ μοναστηρίῳ ἐκείνῳ εἷς ξέστης ἐλαίου, καὶ ἓν κνίδιον οἴνου,
r.16   καὶ δέκα ἀρτάβας σίτου ἠγανάκτησεν πάνυ κατὰ τοῦ αὐτοῦ Ἰερημίου,
r.17   καὶ οὐ συνεχώρησεν αὐτὸν ἀνελθεῖν μεθʼ ἡμῶν ἕως τῆς Βαῦ ,
r.18   ἀλλὰ ἀφῆκεν ἐν τῷ μοναστηρίῳ Ἀφροδιτοῦς, ἄχρι ἀποθέσεως
r.19   τῶν λόγων αὐτοῦ σὺν Θεῷ μετὰ τὴν διοίκησιν τοῦ πρώτου μοναστηρίου
r.20   τῆς Βαῦ. λοιπάζεται γὰρ ὁ λόγος αὐτοῦ τετρακοσία νομίσματα
r.21   μικρῷ ἢ πρός, ὑπὲρ μόνης τῆς διοικήσεως τοῦ μοναστηρίου
r.22   ἑνὸς ἐνιαυτοῦ τῆς πρώτης ἰνδικτιῶνος, χωρὶς τῶν ἄλλων χρεῶν
r.23   τῶν δανειστῶν συντείνοντων εἰς ἕτε[ρ]α τριακόσια δεκατέσσαρα νομίσματα
r.24   καὶ κατʼ αὐτὴν τὴν ἡμέραν ἡμέραν ἀντεπ[έ]ρασεν μετὰ τῶν θεοσεβεστάτων
r.25   ἀδελφῶν Ἰακώβου, Ἀγαθοῦ, Φοιβάμμωνος, βουλόμενος ἅμα αὐτοῖς
r.26   βερετοις προλαβεῖν ἐπὶ τὴν Ἀντινόου, καὶ πρὸς εἴδησιν τῆς
r.27   ὑμετέρας θεοφιλοῦς εὐτεκνίας ταῦτα γέγραφα, ἀνέρχεται δὲ
r.28   μεθʼ ἡμῶν Ἰερημίας, ὁ προεστὼς τοῦ μοναστηρίου Ἀφροδιτοῦς
r.29   ἕως τῆς Ἀντινόου. ἀσπάζομαι πρὸ πάντων τὴν σὴν ἀδελφικὴν
r.30   θεοφιλίαν ἐν Κυρίῳ, μετὰ πάντων τῶν σὺν αὐτῇ καὶ ἀγαπώντων
r.31   αὐτὴν ἀδελφῶν. οἱ σὺν ἐμοὶ ἀσπάζονται ὑμᾶς ἐν Κυρίῳ·
r.32   τὸ μοναστήριον Ταντωνα καλῶς κεῖται. Φαμενὼθ γ, ἰνδικτιῶνος β.
r.33   μὴ ὀλιγωρήσῃ δὲ ἡ ὑμετέρα θεοφιλία κατὰ τοῦ γραμματηφόρου·
r.34   ἐπειδὴ ἐκράτησα αὐτὸν ἐνταῦθα ἄχρι παρουσίας τοῦ μεγάλου κόμιτος,
r.35   καὶ εἶθʼ οὕτως ἀπέλυσα αὐτὸν πρὸς ὑμᾶς
r.36   τῷ τὰ πάντα θεοφιλεστάτῳ πνευματικῷ ὑιῷ ἀββᾶ Γεωργίῳ προεστῶτι,
r.37   ἀββᾶ Ἀνδρέας ἐλεεινός.

[TRANSLATION]
1     On the second of the present month Phamenoth
2     the most magnificent count Ioannes reached the harbor of the monastery of Aphrodito,
3     having sent me a letter from your God-loving goodness (of children),
4     and learning from it of her good health, I glorified the Lord God;
5     and I urged his magnificence to go up to the
6     monasteries and to inspect their administration. He would not consent
7     for the time being to do this, but nevertheless, when we set out on the third at dawn
8     to the estate called Pernis, I summoned him there,
9     having to discuss with him the fitting matters privately before our
10    voyage upstream; and when his magnificence had arrived, there also came
11    the most reverend brothers of the monastery of Stratonikis, crying out against Ieremias the superior, and alleging countless acts of violence
12    both concerning the ruin of the monastery and concerning its debts
13    during the time of his administration; and the same most magnificent
14    man, having heard the things said by them, especially that today there does not belong
15    to that monastery a single xestes of oil, nor one knidion of wine,
16    nor ten artabas of grain, was greatly angered against the same Ieremias,
17    and did not allow him to go up with us as far as Bau,
18    but left (him) in the monastery of Aphrodito, until the rendering
19    of his accounts, with God, after the administration of the first monastery
20    of Bau. For his account is in arrears of four hundred solidi
21    little more or less, for the sole administration of the monastery
22    for one year of the first indiction, apart from the other debts
23    of the creditors amounting to another three hundred fourteen solidi.
24    And on that very same day he crossed over with the most God-fearing
25    brothers Iakobos, Agathos, Phoibammon, wishing together with them
26    … to set out beforehand for Antinoöpolis; and for the information of
27    your God-loving goodness I have written these things; and there goes up
28    with us Ieremias, the superior of the monastery of Aphrodito,
29    as far as Antinoöpolis. I greet above all your brotherly
30    God-love in the Lord, with all those with her and who love
31    her, the brothers. Those with me greet you in the Lord;
32    the monastery of Tantona is in good condition. Phamenoth 3, of the 2nd indiction.
33    And let your God-love not be neglectful concerning the letter-carrier;
34    since I detained him here until the arrival of the great count,
35    and only then did I release him to you.
36    To the in all things most God-loving spiritual son, abba Georgios the superior,
37    abba Andreas, the pitiable.
