[META]
id:       P.FOUAD 1.37
label:    P.FOUAD 1.37
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos (?)
genre:    contracts
date:     48 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos (?)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (?) (48 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Lehre — Weber — Leinen
tm:       20987
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.fouad;1;37
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Μηνόδωρος Ἀπολλωνίου, Ἀλθαιεύς, Λουκίῳ Πομπηίωι Νίγερι χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ σε ἐκδεδόσθαι μοι τὸν υἱὸν σοῦ Φοῦσκον, οὐδέπω ὄντα τῶν ἐτῶν
r.2    ἐκδιδάξαι τὴν λινουφικὴν τῶν καθημένων τέχνην πᾶσαν ἐντελῶς, καθὰ καὶ ἐγὼ ἐπίσταμαι, ἐν ἔτεσι δυσί ἀπὸ μηνὸς Γερμανικείου τοῦ ὀγδόου
r.3    ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος, ἐφʼ ᾧ καὶ χορηγήσω σοὶ ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ μισθὸν κατὰ μῆνα ἕκαστον ἀργυρίου
r.4    δραχμὰς τέσσαρας γίνονται δραχμαὶ δ, σοῦ τοῦ πατρὸς τρέφοντος αὐτὸν καὶ ἱ[ματίζ]οντος· ὃν καὶ παρέξῃ μοι παραμένοντα πρὸς [τῇ μ]αθήσει, αὐτὰς τὰς ἡμέρας,
r.5    ὑπήκοον ὄντα ἐν τοῖς κατὰ τὴν τέχνην· ἀργήσει τοῦ μηνὸς ἡμέρας τρεῖς · ὧν καὶ οὐδὲν ἀπὸ τοῦ μισθοῦ ὑπολογήσω· τῶν δὲ πλείονων τοῦ μὲν
r.6    μισθοῦ τὸ ἐπίβαλλον ὑπολογήσω, ἀντιπαρέξῃ μοι δὲ αὐτὸν τὰ[ς ἴσ]ας μετὰ τὸν χρόνον ἐπὶ τοῖς αὐτοῖς· ὃν καὶ οὐκ ἀποσπάσεις ἀπʼ ἐμοῦ ἐντὸς τοῦ
r.7    χρόνου, οὐδέ μοι ἐξέσθαι ἀποτρίψασ[θαι] αὐτὸν ἐντὸς τοῦ ἴσου χρόνου· τούτου δὲ πληρωθέντος ἐπιδείξομαι σοὶ αὐτὸν ἐπὶ ὁμοτέχνων
r.8    τριῶν ὧν ἐὰν κοινῇ γνῶμῃ ἑ[λώμεθα … ] ἐὰν δʼ ἔν τινι παραβαίν[ω] ἐκτείσω σοὶ παραχρῆμα τά τε βλάβη [καὶ] δαπ[ανήματα]
r.9    καὶ οὓς ἐὰν προσοφείλω μισθοὺς σὺν ἡμιολίᾳ καὶ ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς ἑκατὸν , καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης, χωρὶς τοῦ κύρια εἶναι τὰ προγεγραμμένα. ἔτους η Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος, Φαρμοῦθι ιη.
r.10   ὡς ἐτῶν μ οὐλὴ μήλῳ δεξιῷ.
r.11   Μηνόδωρος Ἀπολλωνίου διδάξω καὶ ποιήσω καθώς πρόκειται.
r.12   Μηνόδωρ[ος] Φούσκου

[TRANSLATION]
1     Menodoros son of Apollonios, of the Althaiean deme, to Lucius Pompeius Niger, greeting. I acknowledge that you have apprenticed to me your son Phouskos, who is not yet of age,
2     to teach (him) the entire weaver's craft of those who work seated, fully, just as I myself know it, in two years from the month Germanikeios of the eighth
3     year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, on condition that I shall also furnish you on his behalf wages each month, of silver
4     four drachmas, total 4 drachmas, while you the father feed him and clothe him; whom you shall also provide to me, remaining with the apprenticeship, the actual days,
5     being obedient in the matters of the craft. He shall be idle three days of the month, for which I shall deduct nothing from the wages; but for any more than these,
6     I shall deduct the corresponding (amount) of the wages, and you shall in turn provide him to me for an equal number (of days) after the period, on the same terms; whom also you shall not take away from me within the
7     period, nor shall it be permitted to me to dismiss him within the equal period; and when this is fulfilled, I shall present him to you before three
8     fellow-craftsmen whom we may choose by common decision … And if I transgress in anything, I shall pay you at once both the damages and the expenses
9     and whatever wages I may still owe, with a half (penalty), and a fine of one hundred silver drachmas, as by legal judgment, apart from the validity of the things written above. Year 8 of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, Pharmouthi 18.
10    about 40 years old, a scar on the right cheek.
11    I, Menodoros son of Apollonios, shall teach and do as aforesaid.
12    Menodoros (son of?) Phouskos.
