[META]
id:       P.FOUAD 1.85
label:    P.FOUAD 1.85
name:     Letter — unbekannt
genre:    letters
date:     501 CE – 700 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from unbekannt (501 CE – 700 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Paulos an seinen Bruder
tm:       37230
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.fouad;1;85
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    εἰ ᾔδειν ὅτι οὕτως ἔμελλες καὶ σεαυτω?ͅ καὶ ἐμοὶ καταστρέφειν καὶ εἰς ὑπόληψιν καὶ εἰς ὑπόστασιν
r.2    οὐκ ἂν οὔτε ἐπὶ Ἀλεξάνδρειαν οὔτε ὅλως ἠξίουν σε λόγου τοῦ τυχόντος. οὔπω λέγω περὶ ὑποστάσεως
r.3    καὶ ὑπολήψεως. ἀληθῶς καλῶς τραγῳδοῦσίν σε καὶ ἐνταῦθα καὶ ἐκεῖθε. οὐθὲν λείπει
r.4    εἰ μὴ τό σε ἐλθεῖν καὶ εὑρεῖν τὸ ἀκκούβιτον ἐστρωμένον. ἐὰν ἀπέλθῃς εἰς Ἀντινόου
r.5    εὑρίσκεις τὴν Πεταμηναρίαν, ἐὰν εἰς Ἀλεξάνδρειαν Σωσάνναν, ἐὰν εἰς Ἡρακλέους
r.6    Οὐρανίαν, ἐὰν εἰς τὴν πόλιν σου τὴν Κονδηταρίαν. λοιπόν, ὡς οἶδας, καλὴν σπάθην
r.7    φέρε μετὰ σεαυτοῦ ἵνα ἀπαλλάξῃς με τῆς νῦν ζωῆς. μὰ τὸν γὰρ Θεὸν ἦλθον οἱ
r.8    παριστοῦντές σε καὶ δέδωκα τὰς ἐγγύας καὶ οὐκ ηὗρον ἐὰν ἅμα ὁλοκόττινον δοῦν[α]ι λόγῳ
r.9    σπορτούλου. οὔπω λέγω περὶ ἀναλωμ[ά]των Ἀλεξανδρείας καὶ τάξεως. λοιπὸν καὶ ἂν νῦν
r.10   ὡς θέλεις σπούδασον ἀπελθεῖν πρὸς τὴν γαμετὴν τοῦ κυρίου μου θείου· παρεκλήθη γὰρ
r.11   παρʼ ἡμῶν ἐνταῦθα μετὰ Μαρίας τῆς ἀδελφῆς Θέονος τοῦ γαμβροῦ· καὶ μὴ ἀμελήσῃς
r.12   τοῦτο ποιεῖν· ὑπέσχετο γὰρ ἢ παρασκεύασαι αὐτὴν διαλύεσθαι ἢ ἐπὶ τοῦ ἄρχοντος τὰ
r.13   τῆς ὑποθέσεως ῥιφῆναι, καὶ ἂν μὴ ποιήσῃ αὐτὴν σπούδασον αὐτὸς ἢ διὰ Κλητικοῦ ἢ διὰ φίλων
r.14   μεσιτείας φυλάξαι τὴν δίκην. ἐνταῦθα διὰ τὸν Θεὸν ἤδη δέδωκα ἐννέα χρύσινα
r.15   αὐγουσταλιανοῖς. φεῖσαι σεαυτοῦ καὶ τῶν παιδίων σου· ἐγὼ γὰρ οὐ πάντως μένω. λοιπὸν
r.16   σκόπησον ἤτοι διὰ φίλων ἤτοι διὰ ὀνῆ[ς κα]ὶ ὀνόματος Θεοδώρου εἴτε διὰ
r.17   Κλητικοῦ εἴτε διὰ οἱουδηποτεοῦν πράγμ[ατο]ς ἀπαλλάξαι σεαυτόν. καὶ γ[ὰ]ρ ὁ κύριος Νόννος
r.18   ἔγραψεν ἤδη πρὸς ἡμᾶς ἵνα τοῦτο ποιήσῃ καὶ ὑπερθῆται τὸ πρᾶγμα· ἐὰν δὲ πάλιν μαθῇς
r.19   ὅτι οὐκ ἐδυνήθης ταχέως κατάλαβε μεταδίδων μοι τὸ πρᾶγμα καὶ ὁ Θεὸς δ … κει
r.20   μέντοι ἐκτὸς βλάβης πολλῆς ἢ φθανούσης εἰς ὑπόληψιν
r.21   ἐπίδος τῷ δα … η … ω … ευμ … καὶ ἐν[α]ρέτῳ ἀδελφῷ Σαμουὴλ νοταρίῳ
r.22   παρὰ Παύλου ἀδελφοῦ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     If I had known that you were thus going to ruin both yourself and me, both as to reputation and as to property,
2     I would not have thought you worthy of a single word, either about Alexandria or at all. I am not yet speaking about property
3     and reputation. Truly they make a fine tragedy of you both here and there. Nothing is lacking
4     except your coming and finding the couch spread. If you go off to Antinoou
5     you find Petamenaria, if to Alexandria Sosanna, if to Herakleous (city)
6     Ourania, if to your own city Kondetaria. For the rest, as you know, a good sword
7     bring with you so that you may rid me of this present life. For, by God, those who would
8     present you (to court) came, and I gave the sureties, and I did not find (means), even if (it were possible) to give a solidus on account
9     of the gratuity. I am not yet speaking about the expenses of Alexandria and the office. For the rest, even if now
10    as you wish, make haste to go off to the wife of my lord uncle; for she was invited
11    by us here, with Maria the sister of Theon the brother-in-law; and do not neglect
12    to do this; for she promised either to arrange that she settle, or that before the magistrate the
13    matters of the case be thrown out, and if she does not do it, hasten yourself, either through Kletikos or through the
14    mediation of friends, to safeguard the lawsuit. Here, for God's sake, I have already given nine gold pieces
15    to the Augustalians. Spare yourself and your children; for I am not at all staying. For the rest,
16    consider, whether through friends or through a purchase and in the name of Theodoros, or through
17    Kletikos, or through any thing whatsoever, to extricate yourself. For indeed the lord Nonnos
18    has already written to us that he should do this and postpone the matter; but if again you learn
19    that you were not able quickly, come back, communicating the matter to me, and God … (will) …
20    however, apart from much harm or (harm) reaching to (your) reputation.
21    Deliver to the … and virtuous brother Samuel, notary,
22    from Paulus the brother.
