[META]
id:       P.GASCOU 24
label:    P.GASCOU 24
name:     Documentary papyrus — Babylon (Heliopolites, Ägypten)
genre:    documents
date:     701 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Babylon (Heliopolites, Ägypten)
held:     Vienna
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Babylon (Heliopolites, Ägypten) (701 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Lettre — Travail — Femme — Envoi — Vin — Liste — Compte — Bateau — Arabe
tm:       82118
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.gascou;;24
lat:      30.005783
lon:      31.2301075

[GREEK]
r.1    ϩⲛ ⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉ ⲓⲉⲍⲓⲇ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲥⲱⲛ ⲁⲃⲟⲩ ⲁⲗⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲡⲉⲕⲏⲓ ⲧⲏⲣⲏϥ
r.2    ⲛⲉⲕⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ καλῶς ⲧⲓⲧⲁⲙⲟ ⲛⲧⲉⲕⲙⲏⲧⲥⲱⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϫⲓ ⲙⲟⲉⲓⲧ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲟⲩⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.3    ⲉⲃⲁⲃⲓⲗⲟⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲡⲏⲛϩⲉ ⲉⲗⲁⲟⲩ εἰ μή τι ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲛⲡⲟⲩⲉⲓⲣ ϩⲱϥ ⲉⲗⲁⲟⲩ ⲛⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁⲙ ὅλως λοιπόν ⲕⲥⲱⲟⲩⲛ ϫⲏ ⲙⲏ ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲥ ⲛϣⲁϥⲉⲓⲣ ϩⲱϥ ⲛⲁⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲏⲛⲛⲁϣ ⲛⲟⲩ
r.4    ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲏϩⲱϥ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲟⲩϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ λοιπόν ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲏⲕⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲓⲏ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲟⲩⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως
r.5    ⲛϥⲁϩⲉⲣⲁⲧϥ ⲉⲡⲉⲥϩⲱϥ ⲧⲏⲛⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲧⲏⲛⲃⲓⲧⲥ ⲛⲧⲏⲛⲛⲟⲉⲓ ⲁⲛ ϫⲏ ⲛⲕⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲓ ⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ
r.6    ὄντως ⲉⲡδίκαιος ⲡⲏ ⲓⲏ ⲣⲏϣⲉ ⲛϩⲱϥ ϩⲏ ⲛⲏⲕϭⲓϫ ⲛⲕⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲅⲁϩⲉⲣⲁⲧⲕ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲏⲛⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲡⲏⲥϩⲱϥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩταλαίπωρος ⲛⲁⲧⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲧⲏ ⲉⲥϭⲟⲓⲗⲉ ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲙⲁⲕ λοιπόν
r.7    ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ϣⲁⲕⲛⲁϣ ⲛⲡⲏⲣⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛⲁⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲏ ⲛⲏⲕϭⲓϫ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲏⲕⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡⲓ ⲓⲏ ⲣⲏϣⲉ
r.8    ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲙⲁⲟⲩ ⲥϭⲱϣⲧ ⲉⲡⲉⲕϣⲁϫⲉ παρά ⲟⲩⲁ ⲁⲓⲧⲛⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲥ ϫⲏ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲧⲏχρεία
r.9    ⲛεἶδος ὅλως ⲧⲁⲧⲱϩⲣⲉϥ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲡⲏϣϣⲓⲣⲉ ϫⲏ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲏⲁⲃⲟⲩ ⲁⲗⲓ ⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲡⲁⲓⲱⲧ
r.10   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲡⲏⲧⲧⲱϣ λοιπόν ⲛⲡⲏⲣⲥⲓⲧ ⲡⲉⲥϩⲱϥ ϩⲓ ⲡⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲛⲙⲟⲕ ἐπεί ⲛⲉⲥδίκαιον ϩⲓϫⲱⲕ
r.11   ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲕϣⲉⲣⲉ ⲟⲛ ⲫⲱϥ ⲡⲉ ϫⲏ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲛ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲕⲙⲁⲥⲥ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲁⲥⲓⲣ ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲕϣⲉⲣⲉ
r.12   ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲏ ⲡⲏⲕⲏⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲕⲥⲱⲟⲩⲛ ϫⲏ ⲙⲏⲣ ⲡⲏⲥⲥⲟⲛ ⲥⲱⲕϥ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ὅλως λοιπόν ⲛⲡⲏⲣκατέχειν ⲛⲙⲟⲛ ⲛⲧⲏⲛⲥⲱⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲛ ⲛⲡⲏⲛϣⲁϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲛϣⲁⲛⲃⲓⲧⲥ ⲛⲧⲏϩⲱϥ ϣⲱⲡⲉ
r.13   ⲡⲙⲁ ⲛϣⲁⲛⲕⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϣⲁⲓⲃⲓⲧⲥ ⲉⲣⲙⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ ϩⲓⲱϥ ⲁⲓⲁϩⲓⲉ ⲡϣⲉ ⲛⲁⲗⲓ ⲕⲱ ⲧⲏⲕἀποθήκη ⲉⲃⲟⲗ λοιπόν ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲛστοιχεῖν ⲛⲧⲁⲕ ϩⲓϫⲱϥ ⲓⲏ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲡⲏⲛⲛⲟⲉⲓ ⲉⲣⲙⲁϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲙⲟⲩⲥⲁⲗⲁⲙⲉ ϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϫⲛⲟⲩⲥ ϫⲏ ⲙⲁⲣⲏⲁⲃⲟⲩ
r.14   ⲁⲗⲓ ⲉⲓ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲁⲃⲱⲧ ⲧἀποθήκη ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓϫⲱϥ λοιπόν [ⲛ]ⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲉϩⲏⲧ ⲁⲣⲏⲩ ϣⲁⲣⲏ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.15   πείθειν ⲛⲕⲛⲁϣ ⲛⲃⲱⲧⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲥⲱⲕ ἐπεί ⲟⲩὕλη ⲉⲥⲛⲁϣⲧ ⲡⲏ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲉⲕⲥⲱⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲥ
r.16   ⲛⲧⲁⲓϩⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲡⲏϣⲓⲛⲉ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ὅλως ⲛⲡⲏⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓ ϣⲁ ⲧⲏⲛⲟⲩ ϩⲏ ⲧⲏχώρα λοιπόν
r.17   τάχυ ⲛⲙⲟⲕ ⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲁⲣⲏⲩ ϣⲁⲛⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲫⲱϥ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲛϣⲉⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲛνοεῖν ⲁⲛ ϫⲏ
r.18   ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲛϣⲁϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲡⲁⲧⲏⲛⲧⲓ ⲛⲏⲣⲏϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϣⲁ ⲧⲏⲛⲟⲩ ἀλλά ⲁⲛⲧⲓ ⲛⲁ ⲛⲏⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲁⲟⲩ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲕⲥϩⲁⲓⲥⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ λοιπόν ⲛⲡⲏⲣκατέχειν ⲛⲙⲱⲛ τάχυ ⲁⲙⲟⲩ
r.19   ⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲙⲏ ⲗⲁⲟⲩ κωλύειν ⲛⲙⲱⲛ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲓⲉ
r.20   ⲙⲏⲥⲁⲧⲣⲏⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲡⲓϩⲉ ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲃⲓⲛⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ πείθειν ⲁⲓⲧⲓ ⲛⲏⲣⲏⲡ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ πρός ⲛⲟⲙⲓⲥⲙⲁ ⲃ 𐅸
r.21   ⲉⲡϣⲉ ⲉⲧⲏ ⲙⲏ ⲟⲩⲁ ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲥⲁ εἶδος ὅλως ⲁⲩⲱ ὄντως ⲧⲓⲉⲣ ϣⲡⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲙⲱⲕ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϩⲉ ϩⲙⲉ ⲏⲣⲏⲡ
r.22   ⲉⲣⲏⲟⲩⲧⲱⲃⲉϥ ⲉⲧϣⲱⲓ ϩⲏ ⲛⲁⲓⲏⲣⲏⲡ ⲛⲧⲁⲃⲓⲣ ϩⲏⲙⲏϫ ⲁⲓϩⲓⲉⲓⲉⲣ ⲡⲛⲉϥ ϫⲏ ⲛⲡⲱⲓ ⲁⲛ ⲡⲉ ⲡⲁⲓⲏⲣⲏⲡ ⲡⲁⲓ
r.23   ⲁⲓⲟⲩⲛⲏⲥ ϫⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ϩⲉ ⲡⲱⲛ ⲡⲉ ἀλλά ⲡⲁ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉ λοιπόν ⲛⲡⲟⲩⲃⲓⲧⲟⲩ ⲁⲓⲧⲁⲗⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲡⲉⲕⲏⲓ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ
r.24   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲉϫⲕⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲏⲣⲏⲡ ⲡⲛⲟⲩϩ ⲛⲧπόλις διπλοῦν ⲁ ⲧⲁⲗⲕⲁⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛⲗⲓϩⲱⲛⲉ διπλοῦν ⲁ ⲡτέλος διπλοῦν ⲁ
r.25   ⲡὅρμος ⲛⲡⲁⲃⲓⲗⲟⲛ διπλᾶ ⲃ ⲓⲟⲩⲛⲏⲥ διπλοῦν ⲁ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲟⲩⲛⲏⲥ ϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ ⲱⲛ ϫⲉ ⲁⲭⲁⲗⲉⲧ ⲃⲓ διπλᾶ ⲇ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁϥⲧⲓ ⲛⲟⲩⲙⲟⲩⲭⲟⲥ διπλοῦν ⲁ
r.26   ⲁⲡⲟⲩⲥⲧⲟⲩⲗⲓ ⲉⲓ ϩⲏ ⲡϫⲟⲓ διπλᾶ ⲃ καθίσταναι ⲡϫⲟⲓ διπλᾶ ⲑ ⲁⲡⲟⲩⲥⲧⲟⲩⲗⲓ ⲉⲓ ⲉⲡⲉⲥⲏⲓ διπλᾶ ⲧⲗ ⲗⲟⲑⲉ διπλᾶ ⲣ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲛⲧⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ διπλᾶ ⲧ
r.27   ⲡⲏⲕⲏⲓ ⲏⲣⲏⲡ ϩⲓ ϩⲏⲙⲏϫ διπλᾶ ⲣⲙⲁ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓϩⲉ ⲛⲉⲛⲉϥ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲃⲓ ⲙⲏⲧ ⲛσκεῦος ϩⲱⲟⲩ διπλᾶⲓ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲧⲉ ⲧπόσον ⲧⲏⲣⲏⲥ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ διπλᾶ ϡⲅ ⲡτέλος μιλιαρήσια ⲅⲡὅρμος μιλιαρήσιον ⲁ καὶ φόλλεις ⲕ ⲧϩⲏⲙⲉ ⲛⲡϫⲟⲓ νόμισμα α 𐅵
r.28   ⲧⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲥⲱⲛ ⲁⲃⲟⲩ ⲁⲗⲓ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲓⲉⲍⲓⲇ ⲡⲉϥⲥⲱⲛ ⲡⲁⲡⲟⲩⲏ

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of God. It is I, Iezid, who write and greet my beloved brother Abou Ali, and the welfare of all your house.
2     All your people greet you warmly. I inform your brotherhood that God has guided us; we have come in
3     to Babylon, and we have found nothing to do — except something good. And I came upon her; they had done nothing with Mariam. So then, you know whether she is not a person who would have been wont to act for herself; and how can we
4     bring them all out as one same thing? So then, if it is impossible to bring it out, I write to a man, in short,
5     so that he may stand by the matter; send it out, take it. We do not think that you would come up over this, and
6     truly it is the righteous one, I, who rejoices over it; if your hands take it out, and you stand by it until we send it out from the matter, for it is a wretched, unmanly thing, this woman, who is bringing reproach upon God, in short.
7     If you are able to set down the things in writing in your hands until you bring it out for this, I rejoice.
8     A man with a mother looks to your word; not just one — I have sent to her, saying: become the necessity,
9     in form, in short, of restoring them to my son, saying: until Abou Ali comes out himself, my father,
10    and it is he who decrees, in short, that the matter not be removed; it is behind you, since these were not just on you.
11    For also like your daughter, his is the matter, saying: it is not you who fashioned us; she acted like your daughter,
12    who came up into your house. And you know that the brother is not bound; draw him to us, in short, so as not to hold us back. We do not know what is wont to befall, and if we remove it from the matter, it shall come about.
13    The place to which we appeal — I bring it before me. And the evil of these which I write, I write to you about it. I swore by the lot of Ali, leave the storehouse out, in short, if we are in accord with you over it. I — you are the one we think about it; and come to Salame, ask me whether they made a man; ask her, saying: let Abou go.
14    Ali, come to me, that I may put the storehouse out from upon it, in short; you, come to the north, perhaps the Lord will yield,
15    persuasion, and you will be able to root it out from after you, since it is a strong matter, this, which you draw after it.
16    I came upon it, and we did not inquire that it should come about, in short. We did not write, come to us now in the district, in short.
17    Quickly with you, come, perhaps until we send it out from the matter, since I am a little child, and we do not understand, saying:
18    what is wont to come about? And before we give the whole of it out until now — but rather, in place of the men, what is it as you wrote it down for me, in short? Do not hold us back; quickly come.
19    For there is none to hinder us after you, through these writings. I greet you. Farewell in the Lord. And whether
20    or not you write to me, I write to you. We did not find a wicked man to do them for you; God persuaded; I gave out the wine for two nomismata and a half.
21    For the matter that is — does not one inquire after the form, in short? And truly I marvel with you. Thus, forty (jars of) wine
22    I exchanged what is above among these wines; the very thing I did in Hemmech, I sold the half, saying: this wine is not mine, this.
23    I, Iounes, said: Yes, it is alive — but it is that of Shenoute, in short; they did not remove them; I set them up to your house, all of them.
24    And these are the cost of the wine: the value(?) of the city, double 1; for Alkantre of stones, double 1; for the toll, double 1;
25    for the harbor of Babylon, double 2; Iounes, double 1; and Iounes asked me, saying: Achalet bought, double 4; and he gave a mouchos, double 1;
26    Aboustouli came in by ship, double 2; for fitting out the ship, double 9; Aboustouli came to his house, double 330; for Lothe, double 100; for what was brought out, double 300;
27    your house, wine and Hemmech, double 141; and I found their goods that they had taken, ten vessels also of theirs, double — this is the total of all that I came upon for it, double 993; the toll, 3 miliaresia; the harbor, 1 miliaresion and 20 folles; the price of the ship, 1 nomisma and a half.
28    Give it to my beloved brother Abou Ali, through Iezid his brother, Papoue.
