[META]
id:       P.GRENF 2.32
label:    P.GRENF 2.32
name:     Receipt — Pathyris
genre:    receipts
date:     101 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Pathyris (101 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Sicherung — Land — Quittung — Bank
tm:       236
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.grenf;2;32
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου [Ἀλεξάνδρου] τοῦ υἱοῦ θεῶν φιλομητόρων ἔτους ιϛ τοῦ
r.2    καὶ ιγ, ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν, μηνὸς Φαρμοῦθι ιζ ἐν Παθύρει
r.3    ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου τοῦ παρὰ Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου.
r.4    ἀπέδοτο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος τοῦ Τοτοηοῦς Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὡς ἐτῶν με μέσος μελίχρως ὑποκλαστὸς
r.5    ἀναφάλανθος μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ ὀδόντι ἀπὸ τῆς ὑπαρχούσης αὐτῷ καὶ τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου ἀδιαιρέτου ἐν τῇ ταινίᾳ Παθύρεως ἀπὸ τοῦ ἐπιβάλλοντος αὐτῷ μέρους ἐν τῇ ἀπὸ νότου ταινίᾳ σφραγῖδος
r.6    ἄρουραν μίαν, ἧς γείτονες νότου γῆ Καλίβιος πρεσβυτέρας, βορρᾶ γῆ Χεσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπαῖτος, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Ἁρσιήσιος
r.7    τοῦ Ζμῖνος, λιβὸς περίχωμα, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Ἐτπεσοῦχος Νεχθανούπιος καὶ οἱ τούτου ἀδελφοὶ
r.8    χαλκοῦ ταλάντων δύο. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ ἀποδόμενος ὃν ἐδέξαντο Ἐτπεσοῦχος καὶ οἱ σὺν αὐτῷ ὠνούμενοι οἱ πριάμενοι.
r.9    Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Πανίσκου κεχρημάτικα.
r.10   ἔτους ιϛ τοῦ καὶ ιγ Μεσορὴ λ. τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Κροκοδίλων πόλει τράπεζαν ἐφʼ ἧς Πάνισκος δεκάτης ἐγκυκλίου κατὰ τὴν παρʼ Ἀπολλωνίου τοῦ πρὸς τῆι ὠνῇ διαγραφήν,
r.11   ὑφʼ ἣν ὑπογράφει Πάνισκος ὁ ἀντιγραφεὺς, ὠνῆς Ἐτπεσοῦχος Νεθανούπιος γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου ἄρουραν α, ὧν αἱ γειτνίαι δεδήλωνται διὰ τῆς προκειμένης συνγραφῆς,
r.12   ἣν ἠγόρασεν παρὰ Πετεαρσεμθέως τοῦ Πανεβχούνιος πρὸς χαλκοῦ τάλαντα β, τέλος Ασ, γίνονται χαλκοῦ δραχμαὶ Ασ.
r.13   Πάνισκος τραπεζίτης.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Cleopatra and King Ptolemy called Alexander, the son, the Mother-loving Gods, in the 16th year which is also
2     the 13th, in the priesthood of the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros being and existing, in the month Pharmouthi 17, in Pathyris,
3     under Hermias, the deputy of Paniskos, the agoranomos.
4     Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis son of Totoes, a Persian of the Epigone, about 45 years old, of medium height, honey-coloured, slightly bow-legged,
5     somewhat bald in front, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on a tooth, sold from the land of the dry-ground grain-bearing field belonging to him and his brothers, undivided, in the strip of Pathyris, from the portion falling to him in the southern strip of the parcel,
6     one aroura, of which the neighbours are: on the south the land of Kalibis the elder, on the north the land of Chesthotes son of Melipais, on the east the land of Harsiesis
7     son of Zmis, on the west the dyke, or whoever the neighbours may be on all sides. Etpesouchos son of Nechthanoupis and his brothers bought it
8     for two talents of copper. The fore-seller and guarantor of all matters relating to this sale is Petearsemtheus the seller, whom Etpesouchos and the purchasers buying with him accepted.
9     I, Hermias, the deputy of Paniskos, have transacted it.
10    In the 16th year which is also the 13th, Mesore 30. It has been paid into the bank at Krokodilopolis, over which Paniskos is set, for the tenth-tax of the circulation-tax, according to the registration drawn up by Apollonios who is in charge of the tax,
11    under which Paniskos the controller subscribes: of the sale, Etpesouchos son of Nethanoupis, of dry-ground grain-bearing land, 1 aroura, of which the neighbours have been made clear through the aforesaid contract,
12    which he purchased from Petearsemtheus son of Panebchounis for 2 talents of copper, tax 1,200, total copper drachmas 1,200.
13    Paniskos, banker.
