[META]
id:       P.GRENF 2.89
label:    P.GRENF 2.89
name:     Contract — Apollonopolis Heptakomias
genre:    contracts
date:     510 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Apollonopolis Heptakomias
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Apollonopolis Heptakomias (510 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen
tm:       22641
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.grenf;2;89
lat:      26.937588
lon:      31.326702

[GREEK]
r.1    κυρίῳ μου καὶ εὐδοκίμῳ ἀδελφῷ Ἰωάννῃ Ἀκινδύνου αἰδεσίμῳ νοταρίῳ ἀπὸ τῆς Ἀπολλωνοπολιτῶν
r.2    παρὰ Φλαουίου Ψενσοηρίου Ἀνουβίωνος στρατιώτου ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως. ὁμολογῶ ὀφείλειν καὶ χρεωστεῖν τῇ σῇ ἀδελφότητι
r.3    ἀποκρότως ὑπὲρ ἀνακομιδῆς τοῦ προτέρου μου γραμματείου χρυσοῦ νομισμάτιον ἓν παρὰ κεράτια δύο τῷ σῷ
r.4    σταθμῷ, γίνεται χρυσοῦ νομισμάτιον α παρὰ κεράτια β καὶ τοῦτο ἑτοίμως ἔχω σὺν θεῷ παρασχεῖν τῇ σῇ ἀδελφότητι ὁπόταν βουληθείη
r.5    μετὰ τῶν νομίμων ἑκατοστιαίων τόκων ἄχρι ἀποδόσεως καὶ συμπληρώσεως τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἑνὸς νομισματίου,
r.6    καὶ εἰς ἀσφάλειαν τῆς σῆς ἀδελφότητος πεποίημαι αὐτῇ τοῦτο τὸ ἀσφαλὲς καὶ ἔστιν μου ὁλόγραφον χειρὶ ἐμῇ. ἀπέλυσα
r.7    ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαούιος Ψενσοήριος στρατιώτης ὁ προγεγραμμένος, στοιχεῖ μοι τὸ ἀσφαλὲς
r.8    τοῦ προγεγραμμένου ἑνὸς νομισματίου
r.9    παρὰ κεράτια δύο , καὶ τοῦτο ἀποδώσω μετὰ τῆς παραμυθείας ὡς πρόκειται. ἐγράφη Ἐπεὶφ ιε τετάρτης ἰνδικτίονος.
r.10   ἀσφαλὲς Ψενσοηρίου Ἀνουβίωνος στρατιώτου χρυσοῦ νομισματίου α παρὰ κεράτια β.

[TRANSLATION]
1     to my lord and well-reputed brother John [son] of Akindynos, esteemed notary from Apollonopolis
2     from Flavius Psenserius Anubion, soldier from the same city. I acknowledge owing and being indebted to your brotherhood
3     distinctly for the return of my previous document [of] one gold coin less two carats according to your
4     standard, [which] amounts to one gold coin less two carats, and this I am ready, with God's help, to provide to your brotherhood whenever [he] wishes
5     with the legal one-percent monthly interest until the repayment and completion of the same one coin,
6     and for the security of your brotherhood I have made this bond, and it is in my own handwriting. I have released
7     as stated above. Flavius Psenserius soldier, the aforesaid, agrees with me [regarding] the bond
8     of the aforesaid one coin
9     less two carats, and this I will repay with the allowance as stated above. Written on Epeiph 15, the fourth indiction.
10    Bond of Psenserius Anubion, soldier, [for] one gold coin less two carats.