[META]
id:       P.HAMB 3.231
label:    P.HAMB 3.231
name:     Receipt — Antinoopolis
genre:    receipts
date:     566 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Antinoopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Antinoopolis (566 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Quittung — Geld — Darlehen — Schuld
tm:       15337
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.hamb;3;231
lat:      27.8105625
lon:      30.8810025

[GREEK]
r.1    Κωνσταντῖνος Καλλινίκου σιγγουλάριος τῷ ἀδελφῷ Διοσκόρῳ Ἀπολλῶτος ἀπὸ Ἀφροδίτης. ἐδεξάμην καὶ
r.2    ἐπληρώθην παρὰ σοῦ τοῦ τρίτου σου μέρους τοῦ γραμματίου τοῦ γεναμένου τῷ ἐμῷ πατρὶ παρὰ
r.3    Ἀπολλῶτος καὶ Σενούθου τῶν μακαριωτάτων· καὶ εἰ εὑρεθείη ποτὲ καιρῷ τὸ αὐτὸ γραμμάτιον, ἄκυρον
r.4    ἔσται καὶ ἀνίσχυρον πανταχοῦ προφερόμενον ὑπὲρ τοῦ τρίτου σου μέρους παρʼ οἱουδήποτε προσώπου. καὶ διὰ τὸ
r.5    ἐμὲ ἀπηλλάχθαι πρὸς σὲ περὶ τούτου καὶ πεπληρῶσθαι ταύτην ἐθέμην σοι τὴν λύσιν κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ
r.6    βεβαίαν μεθʼ ὑπογραφῆς ἐμῆς ὁλόγραφον χειρὶ ἐμῇ. ἐγράφη Μεχεὶρ κη ἰνδικτίωνος ιδ. Κωνσταντῖνος
r.7    Καλλινίκου πεποίημαι τήνδε τὴν λύσιν ὡς πρόκειται. δηλονότι τὸ δοθέν σοι παρὰ Καλλινίκου τοῦ
r.8    μακαριωτάτου μου πατρὸς ἐντάγιον προσερ … των … ἄκυρον εἶναι καὶ ἀνίσχυρον πανταχοῦ
r.9    προφερόμενον· ὁ αὐτὸς σεσημείωμαι.
r.10   χειρόγραφον … γ … α … γενόμενο[ν] παρὰ Κωνσταντίνου τοῦ υἱοῦ τοῦ μακαριωτάτου Καλλινίκου Ἀλεξάνδρου
r.11   … Καλλινίκῳ παρὰ τοῦ
r.12   ἐμοῦ πατρὸς τοῦ μακαριωτάτου Ἀπολλῶτος καὶ Σενούθου Ἀπολλῶτος μακαριω[τάτου]
r.13   … τὸ τρίτον μου μέρος … τοῦ χειρογράφου των … ωστουσιν.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Konstantinos son of Kallinikos, singularis, to his brother Dioskoros son of Apollos, from Aphrodite. I have received and
2     been paid in full by you (for) your third part of the bond made to my father by
3     Apollos and Senouthes, the most blessed (deceased); and if at any time the same bond should be found, it shall be void
4     and invalid wherever produced concerning your third part, by whatever person. And because
5     I have been settled with you concerning this and have been paid in full, I have made for you this release, being valid and
6     secure, with my signature, written wholly in my own hand. Written Mecheir 28, 14th indiction. I, Konstantinos
7     son of Kallinikos, have made this release as is stated above. That is to say, the receipt given to you by Kallinikos my
8     most blessed father proser… ton … is to be void and invalid wherever
9     produced; I, the same, have signed.
10    a handwritten note … g … a … made by Konstantinos the son of the most blessed Kallinikos (son of) Alexandros
11    … to Kallinikos by
12    my father, the most blessed Apollos, and Senouthes son of Apollos, most bless[ed]
13    … my third part … of the handwritten note ton … ostousin.
