[META]
id:       P.HAMB 1.64
label:    P.HAMB 1.64
name:     Contract — Euhemeria (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     103 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Euhemeria (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Euhemeria (Arsinoites) (103 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Land — Angebot
tm:       11406
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.hamb;1;64
lat:      29.383296
lon:      30.533289

[GREEK]
r.1    Τιβερίωι Κλαυδίωι Εἰρηναίωι
r.2    παρὰ Θέωνος τοῦ Θέωνος Πέρσου τῆς
r.3    ἐπιγονῆς. βούλομαι μισθώσασθαι εἰς ἔτη
r.4    πέντε ἀπὸ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἑβδόμου ἔτους
r.5    Τραϊανοῦ Καίσαρος τοῦ κυρίου ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων σοι περὶ κώμην Εὐημέριαν τῆς Θεμίστου μερίδος ἐδαφῶν τὰς ἐν μιᾷ σφραγῖδι
r.6    κλήρου ἀρούρας ἓξ ἢ ὅσαι ἐὰν ὦσι πρὸς ἐλαιῶνι
r.7    πρότερον Νικάνωρος, ἐκφορίου τοῦ παντὸς
r.8    τοῦ μὲν πρώτου ἔτους τῆς μισθώσεως σὺν ᾗ λήμψομαι σπερμάτων ἑκάστῃ ἀρούρῃ πυροῦ δρόμων ἀρτάβῃ μιᾷ πυροῦ τῶν ὅλων ἀρουρῶν ἓξ ἀρταβῶν
r.9    πεντήκοντα πέντε , ἐπὶ δὲ τὰ λοιπὰ ἔτη τέσσαρα ἐκφορίου τοῦ παντὸς κατʼ ἔτος σὺν ᾗ λήμψομαι
r.10   σπερμάτων ἑκάστῃ ἀρούρῃ πυροῦ δρόμων ἀρτάβῃ μιᾷ
r.11   πυροῦ τῶν ὅλων ἀρουρῶν ἓξ ἀρταβῶν τεσσαράκοντα
r.12   δύο ἀνυπολόγων καὶ ἀκινδύνων. καὶ ἐπιτελέσω
r.13   τὰ κατʼ ἔτος τοῦ κλήρου γεωργικὰ ἔργα πάντα σπείρων
r.14   κατʼ ἔτος οἷς ἐὰν αἱρῶμαι πλὴν κνήκου. τὰ δὲ κατʼ ἔτος
r.15   ἐκφόρια ἀποδώσω ἐν μηνὶ Παῦνι ἐν τῇ κώμῃ ἐν
r.16   θησαυρῷ μέτρῳ ἕκτῳ θεοῦ Εὐημερίας, τῶν κατʼ ἔτος
r.17   δημοσίων φορέτρων καὶ ἐνοικίου θησαυροῦ ὄντων
r.18   πρός με τὸν Θέωνα. καὶ μετὰ τὸν χρόνον παραδώσω
r.19   τὸν κλῆρον, τὸ μὲν ἥμισυ [ἀπὸ συγκομιδῆς] πυροῦ καὶ ἄλλο τέταρτον ἀπὸ σπορᾶς γενῶν [ἀναπαυματικῶν], τὸ δὲ λοιπὸν τέταρτον ἀπὸ
r.20   χόρτου βρώματος βοῶν. βεβαίωσις δέ μοι ἀπὸ δημοσίων, ἀμεταμίσθωτα καὶ ἀναυτούργητα, ἐὰν φαίνηται
r.21   μισθῶσαί μοι ἐπὶ τοῖς προκιμένοις.
r.22   Θέων ὡς ἐτῶν ν οὐλὴ πήχει δεξιῷ
r.23   ἐπιδέδωκα τὸ ἀναφόριον ἐπὶ πᾶσι τοῖς προκιμένοις καθὼς
r.24   π[ρό]κιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ φαμένου μὴ εἰδέναι γράμμ[α]τα Ἡρακλείδης νομογράφος Εὐημερίας. ἔτους ζ Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος
r.25   Νερούα Τραιανοῦ Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Δακικοῦ μηνὸς Σεβαστοῦ θ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Tiberius Claudius Eirenaios,
2     from Theon son of Theon, a Persian of the
3     epigone. I wish to lease for
4     five years from the present seventh year
5     of Trajan Caesar the lord, from the (lands) belonging to you around the village of Euhemeria of the Themistos division, the plots in a single seal-document,
6     six arouras of allotment, or however many there may be, by the olive-grove
7     formerly of Nikanor, at a total rent
8     for the first year of the lease—together with what I shall receive of seed, one artaba of wheat for the threshing-floor per aroura—of the whole six arouras, fifty-five
9     artabas of wheat; and for the remaining four years, at a total rent per year—together with what I shall receive
10    of seed, one artaba of wheat for the threshing-floor per aroura—
11    of the whole six arouras, forty-
12    two artabas of wheat, without deduction and without risk. And I shall perform
13    the annual agricultural works of the allotment in full, sowing
14    each year with whatever I may choose except safflower. And the annual
15    rents I shall pay in the month Pauni in the village, in
16    the granary, by the sixth-measure of the god, of Euhemeria, the annual
17    public freight-charges and the rent of the granary being
18    upon me, Theon. And after the term I shall hand over
19    the allotment, the half [from harvest] of wheat, and another quarter from sowing of [fallow-crop] kinds, and the remaining quarter from
20    fodder, food for cattle. And let the guarantee for me be (free) from public (claims), unleased and not self-worked, if it seem good
21    to lease to me on the aforesaid terms.
22    Theon, about 50 years old, with a scar on the right forearm.
23    I have submitted the petition on all the aforesaid (terms) as
24    is set forth. Herakleides, notary of Euhemeria, wrote on his behalf, since he says he does not know letters. Year 7 of the Emperor Caesar
25    Nerva Trajan Augustus Germanicus Dacicus, in the month Sebastos, the 9th.
