[META]
id:       P.HAUN 3.58
label:    P.HAUN 3.58
name:     Documentary papyrus — Karanis (Arsinoites)
genre:    documents
date:     439 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Karanis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Karanis (Arsinoites) (439 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Deklaration — Eid — Wasserrechte
tm:       11456
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.haun;3;58
lat:      29.5182407695
lon:      30.9034261769

[GREEK]
r.1    μετὰ ὑπατείαν τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν Θεοδοσίου τὸ ιϛ καὶ
r.2    Φαύστου [τοῦ] λαμπροτάτων Πάχων κ τῆς ἑβδόμης ἰνδ[ικτ]ίωνος. Αὐρήλιοι
r.3    Τιμόθεος Παπέει καὶ Ψαμμαῦ Πεκυσίου καὶ Οὐενάφριος Λεωνίδου καὶ Ἀτήσιος Παύλου καὶ Καλάων Ἰσίωνος καὶ Ὃλ Λήειν καὶ Οὐενάφριος Σάμβε καὶ Σερῆνος Ἰσιδώρου καὶ Παπνούθιος Ἀμαεῖ καὶ Ὃλ Ἥρωνος καὶ Ἀπφοῦς καὶ Σεραπίων
r.4    πρεσβυτέροις καὶ Παειηοῦς καὶ Σαβῖνος καὶ Ἰσὰκ καὶ Σωκράτης καὶ Ἀσῆμ διακόνοις καὶ λοιποῖς μικροῖς καὶ μεγάλοις τῶν ἀπὸ κώμης Καρανίδος.
r.5    μηδεὶς τῆς κώμης ἐξουσεύσει ἀναλαβεῖ[ν] νηρὸν εἰς τὸ Θανεσάμην μηδέ
r.6    τινα τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης ἐξουσεύσει κλήρων τῶν ἐμπροστὰ τῆς αὐτῆς
r.7    Θανεσάμην, διὰ τοῦτο πεποιήμεθα τήνδε τὴν χεῖρα ὀμνύοντες
r.8    Θεὸν παντοκράτορα καὶ Νίκην τῶν δεσποτῶν τῆς οἰκουμένης
r.9    Θεοδοσίου Οὐαλεντι[νι]ανοῦ τῶν αἰωνίων Αὐγούστων. εἴ τινα
r.10   εὑρίσκομεν κατινον τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Καρανίδος ἀναλαμβάνοντα νηρὸν
r.11   εἰς Θανεσάμην καὶ συνκλάσομεν αὐτοὺς οὐκ ἔχομεν μέμψιν
r.12   παρά τινος τῆς κώμης καὶ διὰ τοῦτο πεποιήμεθα τήνδε τὴν χεῖρα
r.13   πρὸς ὑμᾶς ἀσφάλειαν καὶ συμφωνεῖ ὡς πρόκιται. Αὐρήλιος
r.14   Σερῆνος γραμματεὺς τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν
r.15   παρόντων ἀγραμμάτων καὶ μαρτυρῶ. καὶ ὁ βόσκωνεἰς τὰς
r.16   νομὰς αὐτῶν ἀπὸ ἐξαρχῆς μηδεὶς ἔλθῃ ἐπάνω αὐτοῦ. Φλάουιος Ἰωάννης
r.17   νουμεράριος τῆς ἡγεμονικῆς τάξεως ἐπαρχίας Ἀρκαδίας παρήμην
r.18   καὶ μαρτυρῶ.
r.19   [ἀπ]όδειξις τῶν ἀπὸ κώμης Καρανίδος εἰς Θανεσάμην.

[TRANSLATION]
1     After the consulship of our masters Theodosius for the 16th time and
2     Faustus [the] most splendid (men), Pachon 20 of the seventh ind[ict]ion. The Aurelii
3     Timotheos son of Papees and Psammaus son of Pekysis and Ouenaphris son of Leonides and Atesis son of Paulos and Kalaon son of Ision and Hol Leein and Ouenaphris son of Sambes and Serenos son of Isidoros and Papnouthios son of Amaeis and Hol son of Heron and Apphous and Serapion,
4     elders, and Paeieous and Sabinos and Isak and Sokrates and Asem, deacons, and the rest, small and great, of those from the village of Karanis.
5     Let no one of the village have the power to take water (?) into the Thanesamen, nor
6     anyone of the same village have the power over the allotments in front of the same
7     Thanesamen; on this account we have made this bond, swearing by
8     God Almighty and by the Victory of the masters of the world,
9     Theodosius (and) Valentinian, the eternal Augusti. If we
10    find anyone of the same village of Karanis taking water (?)
11    into the Thanesamen and we restrain them, we shall have no blame
12    from anyone of the village; and on this account we have made this bond
13    to you as a security, and it is agreed as is stated above. Aurelius
14    Serenos, scribe of the same village, I wrote on their behalf,
15    they being present (but) illiterate, and I bear witness. And let no one come upon the herdsman into
16    their pastures from the beginning, over him. Flavius John,
17    numerarius of the governor's staff of the province of Arcadia, I was present
18    and I bear witness.
19    [Pr]oof (security) of those from the village of Karanis concerning the Thanesamen.
