[META]
id:       P.HAMB 1.68
label:    P.HAMB 1.68
name:     Contract — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     548 CE – 549 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (548 CE – 549 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Land
tm:       21049
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.hamb;1;68
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ κ]αὶ … πύργῳ καὶ κ … [ ἡ]λιαστηρίῳ ὁλοκλήρῳ καὶ χαρακῶνι καὶ φυτοῖς καὶ φοίνιξι κ[αὶ]
r.2    πωμαρίῳ καὶ ἐλαιῶσι καὶ ἀχυροθήκῃ τῇ ἐντὸς τῆς λιβικῆς αὐ[θ]εντικῆς
r.3    θύρας, σὺν φυτοῖς ὅλοις ἐνκάρποις τε καὶ ἀκάρποις α … ρ … β … ῳ
r.4    νεοφυτίῳ καὶ τοῖς δυσὶ ξυλίνοις ὀργάνοις, διακείμενον ἐν τῇ αὐτῇ
r.5    νοτίνῃ πεδιάδι τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης ἐν κλήρῳ Φερκω
r.6    ἐκ νότου τοῦ κτήματος τοῦ εὐαγοῦς μοναστηρίου Γενεαλίου, ἐφʼ ᾧ με τοῦτο
r.7    ἔχειν ὑπʼ ἐμὲ καὶ τὴν πᾶσαν γεωργικὴν αὐτοῦ ποιήσασθαι ἐργασίαν
r.8    ἐκ τῶν ἰδίων μου ζώων καὶ ἀναλωμάτων καὶ [γε]ωργῶν πρὸς ἑξαετῆ
r.9    χρόνον λογιζόμενον ἀπὸ καρπῶν τῆς σὺν θεῷ ἐσομένης
r.10   τρεισκαιδεκάτης ἰνδικτίωνος καὶ αὐτῆς καὶ τοῦ ἑξῆς χρόνου, καὶ διδόναι ὑμῖν
r.11   τὸν φόρον ἐπʼ ἀποτάκτῳ, ἐν τελείῳ καὶ ἀβροχικῷ, ὃ μὴ εἴη, φορᾶς τε
r.12   καὶ ἀφορίας, πασῶν ὧν περιέξωθεν ἀρουρῶν λιβικῶν τε καὶ
r.13   ἀπηλιωτικῶν τοῦ αὐτοῦ κτήματος πρὸς ἀναμέτρησιν τοῦ δημοσίου
r.14   σχοινίου ἀπὸ ἑξήκοντα τεσσάρων ἀμμάτων επισθουμεν … θος
r.15   ἑκάστης ἀρούρης ἀνὰ σίτου καθαροῦ καὶ φορικοῦ ἀρτάβας τέσσαρας
r.16   καὶ κριθῶν ἀρτάβην μίαν μέτρῳ τῆς οὐσίας τοῦ τῆς μεγαλοπρεποῦς
r.17   μνήμης κόμετος Ἀμμωνίου. γεωργήσω δὲ ὑμῖν τὴν πλαστὴν γῆν
r.18   ἤτοι χερσάμπελον ἐφʼ ἡμισείας κατʼ ἔτος, καὶ τὴν ταύτης δώσωμεν
r.19   ἐκ τοῦ κοινοῦ σπερμοβολίαν καὶ ἀμπελικὸν νεοφυτεῖον φιλοκαλήσω καὶ ποτίσω
r.20   ἀκαταφρονήτως χειμῶνί τε καὶ θέρει. σπείρω δὲ ὑμῖν ὡσαύτως
r.21   ἐφʼ ἡμισείας ἐπʼ ἀναβάσει βονῇ τὸν ὑμέτερον βουνὸν τὸν ἐξ ἀπηλιώτου
r.22   τῶν ἀπηλιωτικῶν γῃδίων τοῦ αὐτοῦ κτήματος λεγόμενον ἄπα Διοσκόρου.
r.23   καὶ τοῦ καιροῦ γενομένου κατʼ ἔτος τῆς συνκομιδῆς τὸ περιεσόμενον
r.24   ἡμῖν γένημά τε καὶ ἄχυρον ἔκ τε τοῦ βουνοῦ καὶ τῆς αὐτῆς πλαστῆς γῆς
r.25   ἤτοι χερσαμπέλου μερισθήσεται εἰς ἡμᾶς κατὰ τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος,
r.26   εἰς ἐμὲ μὲν λαβεῖν μέρος ἓν ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐμῶν καμάτων, εἰς ὑμᾶς δὲ
r.27   τὸ ἄλλο μέρος ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐκφορίων. παρέξω δὲ ὑμῖν κατʼ ἔτος
r.28   ὑπὲρ ἀργυρικοῦ τοῦ γεουχικοῦ ὑμῶν ἡμίσους μέρους τῶν ἐκεῖσε
r.29   φοινίκων χρυσοῦ τριμήσιον ἓν συναλλαγῆς πρὸς παρὰ ἓν τοῦ νομίσματος
r.30   χρυσοχοικῷ σταθμῷ τῆς κώμης ἐν τῷ μηνὶ Τῦβι κατʼ ἔτος. ὁ δὲ καρπὸς
r.31   τῶν ἐλαίων καὶ τῆς μυξέας καὶ τοῦ πωμαρίου καὶ τῆς
r.32   καλαμίας ἐφʼ ἡμισείας, στελλομένου δὲ ὑμῖν τοῖς γεούχοις κατʼ ἔτος
r.33   ἑνὸς φοίν[ι]κος λεγομένου Ἰωάννου τοῦ ἐπάνω τῆς ἀμάρας. παρέξω δὲ
r.34   ὑμῖν κατʼ ἔτος ὑπὲρ τοῦ μισθοῦ τῶν δύο ξυλίνων ὑμῶν ὀργάνων
r.35   σίτου καλοῦ ἀρτάβας δεκατρεῖς σὺν τῇ συντάξει τοῦ τέκτονος μέτρῳ
r.36   τοῦ ὄρους. παρέξω δὲ ὑμῖν κατʼ ἔτος ὑπὲρ δαπάνης τοῦ φόρου οἴνου
r.37   ἀγγεῖα δύο καὶ κρέως λίτρας δώδεκα καὶ λαμψάνης κολοβὰ τέσσαρα
r.38   καὶ τυροὺς ξηροὺς καλοὺς γεουχικοὺς ἑκατόν . καὶ τὴν μεταφορὰν ποιήσω
r.39   τοῦ τε φόρου καὶ τοῦ ἡμίσους μέρους ὑμῶν τῆς πλαστῆς γῆς καὶ τοῦ βουνοῦ
r.40   γενήματος τε καὶ ἀχύρου εἰς τὸ ὄρος ἀναμφιλόγως. ἡ μίσθωσις
r.41   κυρία ἔστω καὶ βεβαία καὶ ἐφʼ ἅπαντα ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρήλιος
r.42   Ἰακὸβ Δαυεὶδ ὁ προκείμενος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται. Διόσκορος Ἰωσηφίου
r.43   πρεσβύτερος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος Ψᾶϊς
r.44   Ἀπολλῶτος πρεσβύτερος μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας παρὰ τοῦ θεμε … ο.
r.45   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἑρμαυῶτος νομικοῦ ἐγράφη. .

[TRANSLATION]
1     … [a]nd … with a tower and … [a] complete sun-drying terrace and a palisade and plants and palms a[nd]
2     an orchard and olive-groves and a chaff-store, the one inside the western au[t]hentic
3     door, together with all plants, both fruit-bearing and unfruitful …
4     a newly-planted (plot) and the two wooden machines, situated in the same
5     southern plain of the same village of Aphrodite in the holding of Pherko,
6     to the south of the property of the holy monastery of Genealios, on condition that I
7     have this under me and perform all its agricultural work
8     from my own animals and expenses and farmers, for a six-year
9     period, reckoned from the crops of the, with God, coming
10    thirteenth indiction and itself and the following time, and that I give you
11    the rent at a fixed rate, in full and (regardless of) failure of irrigation, which may not be, of abundant crop
12    and of crop-failure, of all the surrounding arouras, both western and
13    eastern, of the same property, by measurement of the public
14    measuring-cord of sixty-four cubits …
15    each aroura at four artabas of clean and transportable grain
16    and one artaba of barley, by the measure of the estate of the count Ammonios of magnificent
17    memory. And I will farm for you the made-up land
18    or dry vineyard on the half-share each year, and the seed-corn of this we will give
19    from the common (stock), and I will tend the newly-planted vineyard and water it
20    unsparingly in winter and summer. And I will sow for you likewise
21    on the half-share, at a good rise (of the flood), your mound, the one from the east
22    of the eastern small plots of the same property, called Apa Dioskorou.
23    And when the time of harvest comes each year, the produce remaining
24    to us, both crop and chaff, from both the mound and the same made-up land
25    or dry vineyard, shall be divided to us by the half part,
26    to me to take one part for my labours, and to you
27    the other part for the rents. And I will provide you each year
28    on behalf of the money-rent for your landlord's half part of the dates
29    there one gold tremission of exchange, at par for the solidus,
30    by the goldsmith's standard of the village, in the month Tybi each year. And the crop
31    of the olives and of the fig-mulberry and of the orchard and of the
32    reed-bed on the half-share, there being sent to you the landlords each year
33    one palm called (that) of John above the channel. And I will provide
34    you each year for the wage of your two wooden machines
35    thirteen artabas of good grain together with the carpenter's allowance, by the measure
36    of the mountain. And I will provide you each year for the expense of the rent two jars
37    of wine and twelve pounds of meat and four bunches of charlock
38    and one hundred good dry landlord's cheeses. And I will make the transport
39    both of the rent and of your half part of the made-up land and of the mound,
40    both crop and chaff, to the mountain indisputably. The lease
41    shall be valid and secure, and on being formally questioned about everything I acknowledged. Aurelius
42    Jacob son of David, the aforesaid, have leased as is set forth above. Dioskoros son of Josephios,
43    presbyter, having been requested, wrote on his behalf, he being unlettered. Psais
44    son of Apollos, presbyter, I witness the lease, having heard it from the …
45    Written by me, Hermauos the notary. .
