[META]
id:       P.KOELN 1.50
label:    P.KOELN 1.50
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     99 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (99 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Urkunde (Verkauf von Ackerland, agoranomische Doppelurkunde mit Innen- und Außenschrift) — genaue Personenbeschreibung — Lagebeschreibung — Namen (Käufer, Verkäufer) — Kaufpreis
tm:       78
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.koeln;1;50
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ιε Παῦνι γ
r.2    ὠνὴ Πανοβχούνιος
r.3    Τοτοήους, γῆ σφραγίδων δ
r.4    μιᾶς μὲν ἐν τῷ ἀπὸ λιβὸς
r.5    πεδίωι, ἄλλων
r.6    ἐν Τεμράθει,
r.7    ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς ἐωνήσατο
r.8    παρὰ Τβοκενούφιος καὶ
r.9    Ταθώτιος τῶν Πατῆτος
r.10   τοῦ Καλλίου ἐν τῷ γ ἔτει
r.11   Χοιὰχ ια ἐπὶ τοῦ ἐν Διὸς
r.12   πόλει τῇ μεγάληι ἀρχείου
r.13   ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου ἀγορανόμου. ἐπρίατο
r.14   Πετεαρσεμθεὺς
r.15   Πακοίβιος ἱερεὺς
r.16   χαλκοῦ ταλάντων β.
r.17   βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Βερενίκης τῆς ἀδελφῆς θεῶν Φιλομητόρων ἔτους ιε
r.18   ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Παῦνι γ, ἐν Παθύρει ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου τοῦ παρὰ
r.19   Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου. ἀπέδοτο Πανοβχοῦνις Τοτοήους Πέρσης, τῆς ἐπιγονῆς, ὡς ἐτῶν ξ, ἐλάσσω ἢ μέσος,
r.20   μελίχρως, τετανός, μακροπρόσωπος, εὐθύριν, ὦτα μεγάλα, τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῷ μερίδα γῆς σιτοφόρου ἀδ[ι]αιρέτου
r.21   ἐν τῷ περὶ Παθῦριν πεδίωι σφραγίδων τεσσάρων, ἀρουρῶν ὅσων ἂν ὦσι, μιᾶς μὲν γείτονες νότου γῆ Πατοῦτος
r.22   τοῦ Φίβιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πελαίου νεωτέρου τοῦ Φίβιος, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Κολλούθου τοῦ Φίβιος, λιβὸς ὄρος, τῆς δʼ ἄλλης λεγομένης
r.23   Τιαβώνιος γείτονες νότου γῆ Χενσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπάιτος, βορρᾶ γῆ Παθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Θράσωνος καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, λιβὸς χῶμα,
r.24   τῆς δʼ ἑτέρας νότου γῆ Τακοίμιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Χενσθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Ἀείους, λιβὸς χῶμα προσαγορευόμενον Τοᾶμε, τῆς
r.25   δʼ ἄλλης λεγομένης Πκρῶ νότου γῆ Σενπελαίας, βορρᾶ Πανᾶτος, ἀπηλιώτου ποταμός, λιβὸς Ἀραμείους, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσ[ι] γείτονες
r.26   πάντων πάντοθεν, ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Τβοκενούφιος καὶ Ταθώτιος τῶν Πατῆτος τοῦ Καλλίου ἐν τῷ γ ἔτει
r.27   Χοιὰχ ια, καὶ ὠνὴν τέθεικαν ἐπὶ τοῦ ἐν Διὸς πόλει τῆι μεγάληι ἀρχείου ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου ἀγορανόμου. ἐπρίατο
r.28   Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πακοίβιος, ἱερεὺς Σούχου καὶ Ἀφροδίτης, ὡς ἐτῶν ν χαλκοῦ τάλαντα δύο. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς
r.29   τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πανοβχοῦνις ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.30   Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Πανίσκου κεχρημάτικα.
r.31   ἀπὸ Πεπεαρσεμθέως Πανοβχ[ο]ῦνιν Τοτοήους
r.32   Πακοίβιος γῆς πρὸς σφραγίδων δ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 15, Pauni 3.
2     Purchase of Panobchounis
3     (son of) Totoes: land of 4 seals (plots),
4     of one indeed in the plain from the west
5     (i.e. western plain), the others
6     in Temrathis,
7     which he himself also had bought
8     from Tbokenouphis and
9     Tathotis, (children) of Petes
10    (son of) Kallias, in the 3rd year,
11    Choiak 11, before the archive in Dios
12    polis the Great,
13    in the time of Apollonios the agoranomos. (It was) bought (by)
14    Petearsemtheus
15    (son of) Pakoibis, priest,
16    for 2 talents of copper.
17    In the reign of Ptolemy called Alexander and Berenice his sister, the Gods Philometores, in the 15th year,
18    in the priesthoods and priestess-hoods and the kanephoros of those holding office, in the month Pauni 3, in Pathyris in the time of Hermias deputy of
19    Paniskos the agoranomos. Panobchounis (son of) Totoes, a Persian of the descent, about 60 years old, less than middle height,
20    honey-skinned, with straight hair, long-faced, straight-nosed, large ears, sold the share of grain-bearing undivided land belonging to him
21    in the plain around Pathyris, of four seals (plots), of as many arouras as there may be: of one, neighbors to the south the land of Patous
22    (son of) Phibis, to the north the land of Pelaios the younger (son of) Phibis, to the east the land of Kollouthos (son of) Phibis, to the west a hill; of the other, called
23    Tiabonis, neighbors to the south the land of Chensthotes (son of) Melipais, to the north the land of Pathotes, to the east the land of Thrason and his brothers, to the west an embankment,
24    of the other, to the south the land of Takoimis, to the north the land of Chensthotes, to the east the land of Aeious, to the west an embankment called Toame, of the
25    other, called Pkro, to the south the land of Senpelaia, to the north (the land) of Panas, to the east the river, to the west (the land) of Arameious, or whoever the neighbors may b[e]
26    of all on every side, which he himself also had bought from Tbokenouphis and Tathotis, (children) of Petes (son of) Kallias, in the 3rd year,
27    Choiak 11, and they registered the purchase before the archive in Dios polis the Great, in the time of Apollonios the agoranomos. (It was) bought (by)
28    Petearsemtheus (son of) Pakoibis, priest of Souchos and Aphrodite, about 50 years old, for two talents of copper. The fore-seller and guarantor
29    of all matters concerning this purchase is Panobchounis the seller, whom Petearsemtheus the buyer accepted.
30    Hermias deputy of Paniskos: I have transacted.
31    From Petearsemtheus: Panobch[o]unis (son of) Totoes,
32    (son of) Pakoibis: land of 4 seals (plots).
