[META]
id:       P.KOELN 3.166
label:    P.KOELN 3.166
name:     Contract — unbekannt
genre:    contracts
date:     501 CE – 700 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from unbekannt (501 CE – 700 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Geschäftsbrief (νοτάριος an seine Herrin Maria) — Kauf einer Kette — Rückseite: Adresse
tm:       37290
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.koeln;3;166
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    καὶ διὰ τοῦ συμμάχου τοῦ εὐλαβεστάτου ἄπα Γεωργίου καὶ διὰ τῶν πεμφθέντων
r.2    διὰ τοῦ νοταρίου τοῦ κόμιτος Ἰούστου γραμμάτων, ἔτι μὴν καὶ διὰ τοῦ κυρίου
r.3    Κοσμᾶ γέγραφα τῇ ὑμετέρᾳ δεσποτείᾳ, ὡς τοῦ δεσπότου θεοῦ συνελθόντος
r.4    ηὗρον τὸ χαλαστάριν ὃ καταθυμίως ἐπέταξεν ἡ ὑμετέρα δεσποτεία·
r.5    καὶ μὰ τὸν σωτῆρα θε[ό]ν, ὡς ὁ τοῦτο πωλῶν διεβεβαιώσατο μεθʼ ὅρκου,
r.6    παρεκαλεῖτο πωλῆσαι αὐτό· ἀλλʼ ἐμοῦ παρακαλέσαντος αὐτὸν ἐπὶ προθεσμία[ν]
r.7    ἡμερῶν εἴκοσι ἀπὸ τότε ἐκ[ώ]λυσα μὴ πραθῆναι ἄλλῃ· καὶ ἐπειδὴ ἔξωθεν
r.8    τῶν ἀκοῶν ὑμῶν ἐτελεύτησεν ὁ μακαρίτης Μηνᾶς πρὸς ὃν τὸ
r.9    ἐπίσταλμα ἐγένετο κα[ὶ] οὐκηὗρον πόθεν τὴν τούτου τιμὴν διδόναι,
r.10   γέγραφα τοσαυτάκις τῇ ἐμῇ δεσποίνῃ· καὶ νῦν τῶν σεβασμίων … ψης
r.11   ἀποδοθέντων μοι ο[ὐ] μ[όνον μετ]ωνόμαζεν κ[α]ὶ … νεν περὶ τιμῆς,
r.12   ἀλλὰ καὶ ὑπομιμνήσκ[ομ]αι παρὰ τοῦ ἀνθρώτου τοῦ πωλοῦντ[ος]
r.13   τοῦ … ουλ … ου … ε … ὡς μέχρι νῦν ἐλπιδοκοπῶ αὐτὸν ὡς οὔπω
r.14   ἦλθεν ἡ ἀπόκρισις διʼ ἀντιγράφων. παρακληθήτω οὖν ἡ ἐμὴ δέσποινα
r.15   συντόμως δηλῶσαί μοι τὴν ἀπόκρισιν ἢ τὴν τιμὴν τουτέστιν τὰ νομισμάτια
r.16   ξζ ὡς αὐτὸς ἔφη ὡς ὁρκίσθη κόμες Θεοδόσιος ὁ ταῦτα μὴ δεδωκὼς
r.17   ἢ ἐὰν κελεύει ἀποτάξασθαι ἵνα εὕρω ἀπολογήσασθαι τῷ ἀνθρώπῳ. μὰ τὸν
r.18   γὰρ σωτῆρα θεόν, ὥσπερ ἐπιθυμῶ τυχεῖν τοῦ ἐλέους τοῦ δεσπότου θεοῦ,
r.19   οὕτως ἐπιθυμῶ δουλεῦσαι τοῖς ἐμοῖς δεσπόταις. καὶ τὴν δὲ ἐπιστολήν, καθὼς
r.20   ἐκέλευσεν, πρὸς τὴν κύραν Εὐφημίαν ἕνεκεν τῶν χειροψελλίων γράφω καὶ ἀπὸδίδωμι μετὰ καὶ προσκυνήσεως μήπως καὶ μετὰ ταῦτα ζητῆσαι ἔχει σου ἡ δεσποτεία
r.21   καὶ αὐτὰ τὰ χειροψέλλια, θέλων ἐν παντὶ πληρῶσαι τὴν κέλευσιν τῆς ὑμετέρας
r.22   δεσποτείας. Τῦβι ιζ ιζ ιζ
r.23   τῇ ἐμῇ δεσποίνῃ τῇ κυρίᾳ Κύρος νοτάριος.
r.24   κυρίᾳ Μαρίᾳ

[TRANSLATION]
1     And through the assistant, the most pious Apa Georgios, and through the letters sent
2     through the notary of the comes Justus, and moreover also through the lord
3     Kosmas, I have written to your lordship that, the Lord God having favoured (us),
4     I found the bracelet which your lordship heartily ordered;
5     and, by the Saviour God, as the one selling it firmly affirmed under oath,
6     he was being urged to sell it; but when I had urged him for a fixed term
7     of twenty days from then, I prevented it from being sold to another; and since, beyond
8     your hearing, the late Menas died, to whom the
9     order had been (addressed), and I did not find whence to pay the price of this,
10    I have written so many times to my lady; and now, the revered … having
11    been delivered to me, not [only] did he change the name and … about the price,
12    but I am also reminded by the man who is selling
13    of the … as up to now I keep him in hope, since the
14    answer has not yet come by replies. Let my lady therefore be asked
15    promptly to inform me of the answer, or the price, that is, the solidi
16    67, as he himself said that comes Theodosios, who did not give these, was put under oath
17    or if she orders me to renounce (it), so that I may find (means) to make defence to the man. For, by the
18    Saviour God, just as I desire to obtain the mercy of the Lord God,
19    so I desire to serve my masters. And the letter, just as
20    she ordered, to the lady Euphemia concerning the bracelets I write and deliver, with obeisance also, lest even after these things your lordship should have to seek
21    the bracelets themselves, wishing in everything to fulfil the command of your
22    lordship. Tybi 17, 17, 17.
23    To my lady the mistress, Kyros notary.
24    To the lady Maria.
