[META]
id:       P.KOELN.AEGYPT 2.42
label:    P.KOELN.AEGYPT 2.42
name:     Documentary papyrus — Bawit (Hermopolites, Ägypten)
genre:    documents
date:     701 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Bawit (Hermopolites, Ägypten)
held:     Köln
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Bawit (Hermopolites, Ägypten) (701 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Geldbetrag — Zahlungen — Kamele — Waren — Kloster — Frauenkloster
tm:       942785
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.koeln.aegypt;2;42
lat:      26.341487
lon:      31.841893

[GREEK]
r.1    ϩⲙ ⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛϣⲟⲣⲡ μέν ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲥⲟⲛ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲥⲟⲛ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ
r.2    ⲛⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲓⲥⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲛⲛⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲓⲣⲏⲛⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲧⲣⲓⲕⲓⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲥⲟⲛ ⲉⲓⲥⲁⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲛⲟⲩⲡ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲣⲓϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲥⲟⲩⲫⲓⲁ ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲛⲉⲥⲛⲏⲩ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲡⲇⲓⲁⲕⲱⲛ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛⲓⲱⲧ ⲡⲁⲡⲁ ⲁⲡⲟⲗⲗⲟ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲧⲁⲙⲟ ⲛⲙⲟⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡϩⲱϥ ⲙⲡⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲗⲟⲕⲟⲧⲧⲓⲛⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲁⲡⲁ ⲙⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲧⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥⲟⲩ ⲉϩⲏⲧ ϫⲉ
r.3    ⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ λοιπόν ⲁⲓϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲉⲓϩⲓⲟⲩⲉ ⲛⲉⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲡⲟⲩⲧⲓ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ λοιπόν ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲡⲁⲧⲉⲕⲧⲓ ⲡⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲗⲟⲕⲟⲧⲧⲓⲛⲟⲥ [ⲛ]ⲡⲁⲡⲁ ⲙⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲉⲓⲉⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁϥ
r.4    ϣⲁⲕϩⲉ ⲉⲧϭⲓⲛϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛⲙⲟⲛ ϣⲁⲩⲉⲛ ⲛⲉⲥⲓⲙ ⲉⲣⲏⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓνοεῖν ϫⲉ
r.5    ⲕⲣ ϫⲟ[ⲉ]ⲓⲥ ⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲧⲛⲛⲁϩⲙ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲙⲉ ⲱⲥⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲟⲡ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ϭⲁⲙⲟⲩⲗ ⲧⲱϩ ⲛⲁⲓ
r.6    ⲁⲩⲱ ϭⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲡⲓⲥⲧⲟⲗⲏ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲙⲟⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲉⲛⲧⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲡⲟⲩⲧⲓ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲓ
r.7    ⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ
r.8    ⲧⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ [ⲛⲥ]ⲟⲛ [ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ] ⲙⲛ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲡϥⲥⲟⲛ
r.9    Ἐν ὀνόματι τοῦ θεοῦ. ἀμήν. ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲍⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ϩⲱⲣⲓⲱⲛ
r.10   ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓἀσπάζεσθαι …
r.11   ⲡϣⲁ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲟ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲧεἰρήνη ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲃ[ⲟⲗ] ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲡⲁϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛϥvestig … char.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of God, first of all things. I, your brother Makare, write and greet my beloved brother Patermoute, and my beloved brother Joseph, and my beloved
2     mother Eisi, and Anne, and Tirene, and George, and Patrikia, and my beloved brother Eisak, and Biktor, and Anoup, and Mariham, and Souphia; and I greet all the brothers in my (charge); and I greet the deacon Shenoute, and my beloved father Papa Apollo in my (charge). And I inform you, you Patermoute, concerning the matter of the two holokottinos-(solidi) that Papa Markos sent to the north (saying):
3     "Give them to me." Furthermore, I have toiled, fighting with them; they did not give me anything. Furthermore, if you do not give the two holokottinos-(solidi) [to] Papa Markos, I will give them to him.
4     until you stop the talking; otherwise they will bring the herbs southward. And I think that
5     you will be lord (over it). Come! I have written to you, and by the will of God we will be saved. And truly, the one outside delays; and (there are) two camels; assign (them) to me.
6     And find the letter that my brother Mouses brought to me, (and) send it to me; give it to me.
7     Farewell in the Lord. I, Enoch, write and greet you.
8     Give it to my beloved [br]other [Patermoute] and to Joseph, through Makare his brother.
9     In the name of God. Amen. We, my brother Athanaze and my brother Horion,
10    write and greet, and we send greeting …
11    (he who is) worthy of all honour, my brother Makare and my brother Joseph. Peace to you from God, the God of my lord, and may he … (traces of characters).
