[META]
id:       P.KRU 83
label:    P.KRU 83
name:     Contract — Theben (Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     770 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben (Ägypten)
held:     London
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (Ägypten) (770 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schenkung eines Kindes an ein Kloster — griechische Unterschrift
tm:       23215
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;83
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … ⲩⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.2    … ϥ ϫⲓⲛⲧⲉ
r.3    … [ⲛ]ⲧⲟⲕ ⲡεὐλαβέστατος ⲛδιάκονος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ
r.4    … [ⲛ]ⲅⲣ ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲅⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲧⲏⲣⲥ
r.5    … δωρεαστικόν ⲙⲡⲉⲓϣⲏⲣⲉ ϣⲏⲙ ⲛϥⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲛⲥⲱⲕ
r.6    … ⲕⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲁϥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲥⲱϣⲉ
r.7    … ⲉⲡλόγος ⲙⲡⲉθυσιαστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.8    … οὐκ ἔξεστι ⲛⲁⲛ εἴτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.9    [ⲉϥ]ⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲛπρόσωπον ⲉⲧⲓ ⲟⲩⲃⲉ ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ μέν ⲉⲉⲣ ⲡⲁⲓ
r.10   πρῶτον μέν ⲛⲛⲉϥὠφελεῖν ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ δεύτερον
r.11   δέ ⲉϥⲛⲁⲥⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉκρῖμα ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥκολάζεσθαι ⲛⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲡβῆμα ⲉⲧϩⲁ
r.12   ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁϥⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲧⲓ ⲟⲩⲃⲉ ⲟⲩπροσφωρά
r.13   ⲉⲡⲱⲣϫ οὖν ⲙⲡⲉⲓτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲕ
r.14   ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲩⲥ ⲡεὐλαβέστατος ⲛδιάκονος ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν
r.15   ⲁⲩⲟϣϥ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲁϥⲉⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲛ ⲁⲛστοιχεῖν ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲛⲧⲁϫⲣⲟϥ
r.16   ⲙμάρτυρος ⲛἀξιόπιστος κατά ἀκολουθία ⲛⲓⲙ
r.17   ⲙⲛ ⲛνόμος ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ δῆλον ὅτι ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ
r.18   ⲉⲧⲓ ⲟⲩⲃⲉ ⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ ⲉⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ
r.19   [ⲛ]ⲧⲁψυχή ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ
r.20   ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡπαντοκράτωρ ϩⲛ ⲛⲉϥϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ
r.21   ϩⲛ ⲛαἰών ⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ
r.22   Ψμωτος υἱὸς τοῦ μακαρίου Κωμετος ἀπὸ Καστρων Μεμνωνιου μαρτυρῶ
r.23   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲥⲙⲁ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ μακάριος ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.24   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲉⲗⲗⲱ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.25   ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲃⲣⲓϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲉⲛ ⲡⲁⲡⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲍⲉⲕⲓⲏⲗ ⲧⲓⲛⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.26   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲉ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲩνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.27   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲑⲉ ⲡϣ ⲛⲟⲛⲟⲫⲣⲓ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ
r.28   ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲉ ⲡϣ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲩνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.29   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲇ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲉ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.30   ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲗⲉⲟⲛⲧⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣ ⲛⲟⲛⲟⲫⲣⲓ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲉ ⲡϣ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ
r.31   ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉϥνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.32   Πέτρος υἱὸς Ἀντωνίου ὑποδέκτης ἀπὸ Μεμνονίων μαρτυρῶ
r.33   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲁ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲕⲟⲥⲙ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.34   ⲡⲁⲅⲏⲛⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲫⲗⲏⲙⲟⲛ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲩνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲇⲱ ⲙⲉⲧⲣⲉ
r.35   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲟⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲕⲟⲗⲗⲟⲩⲑⲉ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.36   διʼ ἐμοῦ Πολυκράτους υἱοῦ Ἰωάννου ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     … come in
2     … from now (?)
3     … you, the most reverent deacon abba (Sourous)
4     … and you shall become lord and possess over the whole power
5     … the deed of donation of this small child, and he shall hearken to you
6     … you shall command him for it (?) in the field
7     … to the reckoning of the holy altar.
8     … it is not permitted to us, whether (to) any man
9     [who] acts (in) our person, still against the power of this deed of donation for ever — he who shall wish to do this:
10    firstly, that he profit nothing; secondly,
11    that he be drawn under the judgment of God and become punished before the dread tribunal,
12    fearing, because he wished (to act) still against an offering.
13    To secure, then, this holy place through you,
14    you abba Sourous the most reverent deacon, we established this deed of donation,
15    (and) they read it to us, (and) we did it (?), we consenting to it; we confirmed it
16    with trustworthy witnesses, according to every procedure
17    and the laws; we issued it forth — it being clear that the one who shall wish
18    (to act) still against this deed of donation, this which I established for the salvation
19    of my soul and my brother (?), he shall become a stranger
20    to God the Almighty, in all his days, and
21    in the ages to come.
22    Psmotos, son of the blessed Komes, from the fortress of the Memnonia: I bear witness.
23    I, Kosma the son of (the) blessed Ioseph, give witness.
24    I, Enoch the son of the late Ello, give witness.
25    We, Pesynte the son of Abriham, also Papas the son of Zekiel, give witness.
26    I, Petros the son of the late Apa Kyre, wrote for them because they do not (know how) to write, and I give witness.
27    I, Pesynthe the son of Onophri, give witness. I,
28    Patermouthe the son of Ioseph, wrote for them because they do not (know how) to write.
29    I, David the son of Patermouthe, give witness.
30    We, Leontios the son of Onophri, give witness. I, Patermouthe the son of Ioseph,
31    wrote for him because he does not (know how) to write, and I give witness.
32    Petros, son of Antonios, collector, from the Memnonia: I bear witness.
33    I, Makara the son of the late Kosm, give witness.
34    Pagene the son of the late Phlemon — I wrote for him because they do not (know how) to write, and I give witness.
35    I, Mouses the son of Kollouthe, give witness.
36    Drawn up through me, Polykrates son of Iohannes.
