[META]
id:       P.KRU 112
label:    P.KRU 112
name:     Contract — Theben
genre:    contracts
date:     749 CE – 771 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (749 CE – 771 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schenkung — Kleinvieh — griechische Unterschrift
tm:       23230
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;112
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … ϫⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡⲉⲓτόπος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲓⲧ …
r.2    ⲉⲩⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙπροσφορά ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁμακάριος ⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ …
r.3    ⲧϩⲁⲡⲟⲩⲥ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡἅγιος ⲙμάρτυρος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲧⲉⲃϩ ⲡⲉⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.4    ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲛⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲓⲏⲥⲟⲩⲥ ⲡⲉⲭⲣⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ ⲛϥⲣ ⲟⲩⲛⲁ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲛⲧⲓϩⲁⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲗⲁⲩ
r.5    ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲥⲱⲛⲉ οὔτε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁπρόσωπον
r.6    ⲉⲉϣⲉⲓ ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉⲓⲧⲃⲛⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲧⲓϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ϩⲁϩⲧⲏ
r.7    ⲗⲁⲁⲩⲉ ⲛἐξουσία ⲉϥἄρχειν ϩⲙ ⲡκαιρός ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥⲧⲓ πρόστιμον ⲙⲙⲁⲁⲃϥⲧⲁⲥⲉ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲱ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲱ ⲉⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲡⲛⲉⲩⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲡⲉⲕⲱⲣϫ
r.8    οὖν ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν ϥⲟⲣϫ ϥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.9    ⲛⲥⲉϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ ⲧⲁὁμολογεῖν . ⲉⲥⲁⲩ λα ⲃⲁⲙⲡⲉ ιδ
r.10   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.11   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲯⲙⲱⲧⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲧⲟⲥ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.12   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲕⲟⲥⲙⲁ ⲙⲉⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲛⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν
r.13   ⲉⲓⲡⲉⲓχάρτης πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲓϥⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲛⲙⲟϥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲓⲣⲉ ⲧⲓ … ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.14   ϩⲁⲣⲁⲩ ϫⲉⲓ ⲙⲉⲩνοεῖν ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲉⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.15   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲉⲗⲗⲓⲥⲧⲓⲛⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡμακάριος ⲕⲟⲥⲙⲁ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲁⲡⲉχάρτης πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲑⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.16   διʼ ἐμοῦ Πέτρου υἱοῦ Ἀντωνίου λογογράφου ἀπὸ Μεμνωνίων ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     … sent forth to this place, and these …
2     that they may become an offering for me together with my blessed mother …
3     the agreement, so that the holy martyr Apa Phoibamon may entreat our Lord
4     and our God Jesus Christ on our behalf, and may show mercy to us in the place of this judgment; and no one
5     of men, neither I nor brother nor sister nor any man at all, acting in my behalf,
6     (shall be able) to come and bring suit with the holy place concerning these cattle of those (people); he shall gain nothing thereby.
7     No one shall have authority to claim at that time, and he shall pay a penalty of thirty-six holokottinoi, and he shall become a stranger to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, against your separation.
8     Therefore I have established this deed of donation, firm and valid in every place where it shall be produced,
9     and they shall question me, and I shall acknowledge it. Written: 31, of the year 14.
10    I, Markos the son of Makare, consent to this deed of donation according to the way it is written.
11    I, Psmotos the son of the blessed Kometos, I bear witness.
12    I, Makarios the son of the blessed Kosma, indeed Pesynthios the son of Makare, I consent
13    to this document according to the way it is written. I, Pros (Petros?) the son of Apa Kire, I … I have written
14    on their behalf, since they do not know (how), and I bear witness.
15    I, Kellistine the son of the blessed Kosma, I consent to the document according to the way it is written. I, Pesynthe the son of Ioseph, I have written on his behalf, and I bear witness.
16    Through me, Petros son of Antonios, the scribe from Memnonia, it was written.
