[META]
id:       P.KRU 18
label:    P.KRU 18
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     701 CE – 750 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (701 CE – 750 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de vente d’une partie de maison. Femmes. Économe. Higoumène
tm:       85921
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;18
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲧⲉ δέ ⲭⲁⲣⲓ …
r.2    ⲕⲗⲟⲙ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲛ … [ⲉⲓ]ⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ
r.3    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲛϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲡμάρτυρος
r.4    ⲟⲩⲁⲙⲟⲩ ϩⲏ ⲡβῆμα ϩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲉⲛαἰτεῖν ⲉⲛⲥⲟⲡⲥ ⲛⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος
r.5    ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ ⲛⲡⲓⲧⲛ ⲙ[ⲛ ⲡⲟⲩ]ϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡκόσμος ⲉⲓⲧⲓ ⲛⲡⲁⲟⲩⲟⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲉⲧⲟⲣϫ
r.6    ϩⲓ πειθεῖν ⲛⲁⲧκαταλύειν ⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲧἀθετεῖν ⲛⲁⲧϣⲱⲗ
r.7    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις
r.8    ⲛⲛⲉμέρος ⲛⲧⲁⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲟⲩⲁⲛⲛⲉ ⲧϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛϩⲏⲗⲓⲁⲥ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲧⲉⲥⲙⲁⲩ ⲧⲉ ⲉⲩⲇⲱⲝⲓⲁ ⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲉⲩⲙⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲟϥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉπρεσβεία
r.9    ⲛⲡμάρτυρος ⲛⲁⲣ ⲟⲩⲛⲁ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϩⲛ ⲡⲉϥβῆμα
r.10   ϫⲉ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉχριστιανός ⲛⲓⲙ ⲣ χρεία ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲡⲉ
r.11   ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲛⲁⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛⲧⲁϥδωρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲓ ⲡδωρεά ⲛⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲡⲉϥμέρος ϩⲓ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲡⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲛⲡⲁⲛⲓⲁⲥ ⲛⲫⲁⲃⲱ
r.12   ⲛⲉϥⲧⲟϣ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲉⲡⲉϥⲧⲟⲩ ⲥⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥχρηστήριον ϫⲓⲛ ⲡⲕⲁϩ ϣⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ ⲡⲉⲃⲉⲧ ⲧκληρονόμος ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ ⲯⲁⲛ ⲛⲡϭⲱⲗ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲛⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲓⲉⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲛϩⲣⲱϫⲉ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲩμέρος ϩⲓ ⲡϩⲁⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲩμέρος ϩⲛ ⲧἐκκλησία ⲙⲛ
r.13   ⲡⲉϥμέρος ϩⲛ ϩⲛ ⲡσκῆνος ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉϥμέρος ϩⲛ ⲡⲧⲓⲙⲉ
r.14   ϩⲛ ⲧⲕⲁⲉ ϩⲛ ⲁⲛϩ ϩⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲕⲓⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲕⲓⲙ ⲁⲛ ⲡⲁⲓ
r.15   ⲛⲧⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲁϫⲱⲓ ⲓⲟⲩⲁⲛⲛⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϩⲱⲧ ⲓⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.16   ⲛⲧⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲁϫⲱⲓ ϩⲁ ⲟⲩδωρέα [ⲉⲁ]ⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ
r.17   ⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲧτιμή
r.18   ⲛⲧⲁⲕⲧⲓⲁⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲧⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲡⲉ ϥⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲛⲡϣⲓ ⲛⲡⲕⲁⲥⲧⲣⲟⲛ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲱⲡ
r.19   ⲛⲕκελεύειν ⲛⲛμέρος ⲛⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲉ ⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος
r.20   ⲛⲧⲟϥ ϩⲱϥ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲱϥ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉϥⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ
r.21   κελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲕⲕⲱⲧ ⲛⲕⲧⲓⲁⲩ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲕχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲕⲟⲩⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲛⲉⲃⲱ ⲛⲕⲧⲓⲁⲩ ⲁⲡⲉϣⲕⲁⲣ ⲛⲕⲕⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲧⲙⲉⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.22   οὐδέ ⲛⲧⲁⲧⲙⲛ δωρέα ⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ οὐδέ
r.23   ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲟⲓ ϩⲛ ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ϩⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲛπρεσβύτερος ϩⲓ οἰκονόμος ⲉϥⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲟⲓ ϩⲛⲡτόπος οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲟⲛ ⲛⲧⲏⲓοὔτε ϩⲁ
r.24   ⲡⲁⲓⲱⲧ οὔτε ϩⲁ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲩ οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲁπρόσωπον ἤ ⲛϥⲛδωρέα ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁ[ⲙ]μέρος ⲛⲙⲁ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲉⲓⲟⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ϩⲛ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲥⲓⲁⲥ ⲛⲡⲓ . μέρος ϥⲉⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.25   οὔτε ϣⲛ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲕ οὐδέ ⲥⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲱⲧ οὐδέ ⲥⲟⲛ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ⲡϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛτύπος ⲛⲛⲉϥϯ ϩⲏⲩ
r.26   ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲛⲁⲩ οὐδέ ⲛⲛⲉⲫⲱⲃ ⲣ ⲛⲟϥⲣⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ἀλλά
r.27   ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲕⲏⲡ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲛⲉχριστιανός ⲉⲧⲉⲩϣⲙϣⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛϥϫⲓ ⲧμέρις ⲛⲁⲛⲁⲛⲓⲁⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲥⲁⲡⲡⲓⲣⲁ
r.28   ⲛⲥⲉἀπαιτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲓ ⲧϭⲓϫ ⲛⲛἄρχων ⲉⲧπράττειν
r.29   ⲛⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛϣⲟⲙⲧⲉ ⲛⲟⲛⲟⲛοὐγκία ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲛπρόστιμον ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲙⲛ ⲡⲥⲟⲣϫ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.30   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡοἰκονόμος ⲛⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ
r.31   ϯκελεύειν ⲧⲙⲧⲣⲉⲗⲗⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.32   ϩⲛ ⲧⲉⲕσυγγένεια ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ
r.33   ⲉϣ ϭⲙ ϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲉⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲛⲉϩⲉ ϩⲁ ⲙμέρος ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛⲧⲁⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ
r.34   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲟⲩⲁⲛⲛⲉ ⲧⲓⲟⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲡτόπος ⲛⲁϫⲓ ⲕⲃⲁ
r.35   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉⲡⲉπρόστιμον ⲛⲛⲟ … ⲛϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛⲛοὐγκία ⲛⲟⲩⲃ
r.36   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲛπρεσβύτερος ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ
r.37   ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.38   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲯⲏⲣⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲛⲁ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ πρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος
r.39   ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.40   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲱⲥⲧⲁⲛⲧⲓⲛⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲥⲱⲗⲱⲙⲱⲛ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.41   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲓϣⲁⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲓⲗⲓϣ ϯⲱ ⲙμάρτυρος
r.42   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁϣ ⲛⲉⲗⲉⲥⲁⲓⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.43   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲉⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος
r.44   ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.45   ⲙⲛ ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲩαἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲛϭⲓ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.46   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲉⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ
r.47   ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ πρός ⲧκέλευσις ⲛⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.48   ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲛπρεσβύτερος ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ

[TRANSLATION]
1     … and gra[ce] …
2     … crown of Apa Phebamon … [I] swear by the power of the consubstantial Trinity, the Father and
3     the Son and the Holy Spirit and the sufferings of the martyr,
4     to die before the tribunal for the salvation of our souls. Afterward, we ask, we entreat the trustworthy witnesses,
5     these who shall bear witness for us below, [with the sal]vation of our souls, these who rule over the world, urging me on to this sale which is fixed
6     and convincing, undissolvable, unannulled, unshakable.
7     The son of the late Athanasios, in Djeme, in the nome of the city —
8     the shares belonging to Georgios the son of Iouanne the daughter of Helias, those of Apa Biktor whose mother is Eudoxia, which they gave into the holy Apa Phebamon for the salvation of their mother and himself, that God and the intercessions
9     of the martyr may have mercy with them at his tribunal —
10    that the place, of which every Christian has need,
11    that place: behold, I, Iohannes, who first wrote it, will write to make manifest the things which he donated as the gift of the place, namely these: his share both of the house which lies up here and of the courtyard of Panias of Phabo,
12    these being its boundaries, surrounding his four sides, with his outbuildings, from the ground up to the air; on the east the heir, on the west Psan of the corner; on the north Iakob of Andreas; on the south Ieremias of Hrodje — these surround it, with their share of the dwelling, and their share in the church, and
13    his share in the … and his share in the tent, and his share in the threshing-floor,
14    in the … in the …, in that which moves and that which does not move — this
15    which came up to me, Iouanne — I too, Iannes,
16    it came up to me as a gift, [since] Georgios
17    gave it into the holy Apa Phebamon, the price
18    of which I, the one who gives it out, gave; it is the four [holo]kottinoi of the standard of the fortress. You, Apa Biktor the son of Athanasios, the buyer,
19    command all the shares of the places of Georgios the son of Iouanne, give them into the place
20    his own, which came up to him on behalf of his fathers.
21    Command them: build, give them out, bestow them, set them as a pledge (?), give them to the pawn, leave them to your children and the children of your children, so that I will not come out against you on their account forever.
22    Nor shall I make a gift come out against you on their account, neither
23    those who come after me in the holy place, whoever shall dare — both I, Iohannes the least presbyter and steward, and whoever comes after me in the place, neither a brother nor a son's brother of mine, neither for
24    my father nor for my mother, nor any man who acts in my person or shall make a gift come out against you over a[ny] share of all the places of Georgios which I gave into the place — you, Apa Biktor the son of Athasias of the … share, he comes out against you, neither son
25    nor son's son of yours, nor a brother of the father nor a brother there, shall sue you: first the type of the penalty which he shall pay
26    of any kind, nor shall the work profit him, but
27    he shall become alien to the holy altar of the Christians whom they serve, that is the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and he shall receive the portion of Ananias and Sapphira,
28    and they shall demand it of him by the hand of the rulers who exact
29    at that time, three ounces of gold as a penalty, and he shall come in and confirm the sale and the deed as it is written.
30    I, Iohannes the steward of the holy Apa Phebamon,
31    command that no man
32    of your kindred, you Apa Biktor the son of Athanasios,
33    shall be able to come out against the shares of the places of Georgios
34    the son of Iouanne which I gave into the holy place of Apa Phebamon — whoever comes out against you, the God of the place shall take vengeance
35    on him, and he shall come to the penalty of the three ounces of gold.
36    I, Iohannes the least presbyter of Apa Phebamon,
37    agree to the sale and its deed.
38    I, Psere the son of the late Petros, in the spirit of God a presbyter and the hegoumenos,
39    bear witness according to the request of Iohannes.
40    I, Konstantine the son of the late Solomon, bear witness.
41    I, Pishate the son of Pilish, bear witness.
42    I, Pahash of Elesaios, bear witness.
43    I, Ieremias the son of the late
44    Athanasios, according to the request of Iohannes,
45    and as the witnesses asked me, I have written for them as scribe.
46    I, Ieremias the son of the late Athanasios,
47    wrote the sale with my hand according to the order of Iohannes
48    the least presbyter, bear witness.
