[META]
id:       P.KRU 8
label:    P.KRU 8
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     730 CE – 739 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (730 CE – 739 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de vente d’un terrain. Héritage. Émir. Nom arabe
tm:       85911
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;8
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡⲉⲓκάστρον ⲛⲟⲩ[ⲱⲧ] … [ⲧⲉⲓ]πόλις ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ χαίρειν
r.2    ϫⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲙⲡμέρος ⲛⲁⲛϩ ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲟⲗⲟⲙⲱ[ⲛ] [ⲡⲁ]ϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲛ
r.3    ⲧⲁⲛⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲥϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲁ ⲟⲩⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲛ … [ⲁⲛ]ἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ
r.4    ⲛⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲡⲉⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲥⲟⲩⲗⲉⲓⲙⲁⲛ ⲡεὐκλεέστατος ⲛἀμιρᾶ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲉⲛμέρος
r.5    ⲛⲁⲛϩ πρός ⲑⲉ οὖν ⲛⲧⲁⲛπείθειν ⲙⲛⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲓ ⲕⲉ ⲧⲓⲟⲩ
r.6    ⲛτριμήσιον ⲛⲁⲓ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲛμέρος ⲛⲁⲛϩ ⲉⲡϫⲱⲕ ⲛⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩⲡⲁϣ τριμήσιον
r.7    ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲙⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡϣⲱⲙⲁⲣⲉ ⲡϩⲏⲧ
r.8    ⲧϩⲓⲣ ⲃⲗⲗⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲣⲟ ⲛⲁⲩⲑⲉⲛⲧⲉⲥ ⲡⲉⲓⲉⲃⲧ ⲥⲁⲛⲏⲑ ⲡⲉⲓⲙⲛⲧ ⲥⲟⲗⲟⲙⲱⲛ
r.9    ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲙⲡⲉⲛμέρος ⲛⲁⲛϩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ϫⲓⲛ ⲛⲉϥⲥⲛⲧⲉ ϣⲁⲣⲁⲧⲏⲩ
r.10   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥχρηστήριον ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲧἀνήκεσθαι ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲧτιμή ⲧⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ
r.11   ⲛⲧⲁⲛσυμφωνεῖν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲡⲉ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττιονος
r.12   ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩⲡⲁϣ τριμήσιον γίνεται χρύσου νομίσματα β ς' ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲉⲛⲛⲁⲉⲓ
r.13   ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛκυριεύεσθαι
r.14   ⲙⲡⲉⲛμέρος ⲛⲁⲛϩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲥⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.15   κατά ⲡδιασταλμός ⲛⲧⲁⲛϣⲣⲡ δηλοῦν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲉ
r.16   ⲉϫⲡⲟϥ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲉⲟⲩⲉϩⲙ ϫⲡⲟϥ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲉδιοικεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.17   ⲉοἰκονομεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉφιλοκαλεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.18   ⲉⲁⲁϥ ⲛτρόπος ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉϩⲛⲁⲕ πότε καιρός ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲉⲓ
r.19   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲉⲛⲉϩ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.20   ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲛπρόσωπον ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ
r.21   ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις ⲧⲁⲓ [ … ] ϩⲁϩⲧⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἐξουσία ⲉⲩϫⲟⲥⲉ
r.22   ⲉⲩϩⲁ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ ἥ μέρος ⲛⲧⲁⲥ ⲉⲡⲧⲏⲣϥ ϣⲟⲣⲡ μέν ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ὠφελεῖν ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ πρωτοτύπως μέν ϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ
r.23   ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥⲧⲓ
r.24   ⲉⲡλόγος ⲙπρόστιμον ⲛⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲛⲧἐξουσία ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ
r.25   ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις
r.26   ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛⲧⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲥⲟⲣϫ ⲥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ
r.27   ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.28   ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲧⲁⲛⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲥϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲧⲛστοιχεῖν
r.29   ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲡⲯⲩⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲉ
r.30   ⲧⲛⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ [ⲁ]ⲛⲟⲕ [ⲁⲣⲓⲥⲧⲟⲫⲁⲛⲏⲥ ⲛⲓⲱϩ]ⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.31   ⲁⲛⲉⲓπρόσωπον αἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲩνοεῖν
r.32   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓσωματίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ

[TRANSLATION]
1     the man of this same fortress … [this] same city, greetings.
2     Concerning the place of the share of the life-portion which belonged to Solomo[n our] husband — we,
3     Tanope and her children, gave it out for a price of … [we] sue you
4     before our lord Souleiman the most glorious amir, concerning our share
5     of life. According, then, to the manner in which we persuaded one another, you having given the other twenty-five
6     trimesia for us, for our share of life, to the completion of the two holokottinoi and one half trimesion,
7     the boundaries of that whole life-portion are these: on the south the man of the Shomare, on the north
8     the blind court, and the door of the owners, on the east Saneth, on the west Solomon,
9     these are the boundaries of our whole share of life, from its foundations to its air,
10    with all its outbuildings which pertain to it. This is the price
11    which we agreed upon for it with one another: two holokottinoi
12    and one half trimesion, making in gold two and a sixth nomismata. From now, when you come
13    in, you shall possess and have lordship
14    over that whole share of life of ours, on every side,
15    according to the division which we first declared, to the air,
16    to beget it to you, to beget it to you again, to administer it,
17    to manage it, to embellish it,
18    to do with it in any manner that pleases you. Whoever at any time shall come
19    out against you ever, neither we, nor any man
20    at all, acting in our person, suing you
21    concerning this sale, this [ … ] before any authority that is exalted,
22    that bears glory, or any share thereof at all — first that one shall profit nothing — first of all he is alien
23    to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and he shall give
24    to the account of the penalty six holokottinoi of the authority which exists
25    now; afterward he shall come in and confirm this sale,
26    valid for you, which we have established, and (it being) unshakable, fixed
27    in every place where they shall manifest it therein.
28    We, Tanope and her children, agree.
29    We, Pshyros the son of Pesoou and Iakob of Athanase,
30    bear witness. [I,] [Aristophanes son of Ioh]annes,
31    these persons asked me, I wrote for them, since they do not know how,
32    and I drew it up with my hand.
