[META]
id:       P.KRU 67
label:    P.KRU 67
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     501 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (501 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Testament d’un moine. Héritage. Femme. Serment. Affaire judiciaire. Maison. Objets. Archôn. Lashané. Higoumène
tm:       85968
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;67
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … τριάς ⲛὁμοούσιος
r.2    … μήν ⲁⲑⲏⲣ ϛ ⲛⲧⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ἔννατος ⲑ ἰνδικτίων
r.3    … μοναχός ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ
r.4    … [ⲯⲉⲛⲁⲛⲧⲱ]ⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ϩⲁ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις ⲕⲉⲃⲧ … ϩⲙ ⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ
r.5    ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲟⲩ[ⲱ]ϣ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲛⲛⲁⲧ … [ⲉⲙ]ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἀνάγκη ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ
r.6    οὐδέ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ οὐδέ συναρπαγή ἀλλά [ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲟ]ⲩⲱϣ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁπροαίρεσις ⲛⲛⲁⲧⲣ ϩⲏⲧϥ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩϣⲟϫ[ⲛⲉ] ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩ[ϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ]ⲛⲁⲧϣⲧⲟⲣⲧⲣ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲁνοῦς ⲙⲙⲟⲓ
r.7    ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲁλογισμός ⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ [ⲥⲙ]ⲟⲛⲧ ⲁⲩ … ϩⲙ ⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁπροαίρεσις ⲛⲛⲁⲧⲣ ϩⲏⲧⲥ ⲉⲧⲣⲁⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ [ⲛ]ⲧⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϣ[ⲏⲣⲉ ⲓⲁ]ⲕⲱⲃ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲉⲧⲣⲁⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ
r.8    ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉϥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲛⲁⲧⲃⲟⲗϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲩδιαθήκη ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛ[ⲉϩ] ⲛⲁⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.9    ⲙⲛ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲕⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲛⲁⲥⲱⲧⲙ [ⲛⲥⲱⲕ] κατά ⲡⲉⲕϣⲁϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲉⲓδιαθήκη ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲉⲓⲟⲩⲏϩ ϩⲓ ⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲏⲙⲉ
r.10   ⲉⲓⲟ ⲙμοναχός ⲁⲩⲛⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛκατά σάρξ ⲛⲧⲁⲓ ϩⲁϩⲧⲏⲓ ⲙⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲓⲙⲉⲉⲩⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲡⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲛ ⲛⲧⲉϥϩⲓⲏ ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉ μήποτε ⲛⲧⲉⲟⲩϣⲱⲛⲉ
r.11   ⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲙⲟⲩ ἐξάπινα ⲉⲙⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲟⲩⲃⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲧⲁⲩⲟ ⲙⲡⲁϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ
r.12   ⲛⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲛⲛἐλάχιστος ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲛⲁⲓ ϩⲁ ⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲙⲁ ⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ
r.13   ἐπειδή … [ϣⲟⲙⲛ]ⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲓⲃⲱⲕ ⲁⲓⲣ μοναχός ⲁⲓⲕⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲩⲟⲛϩ ⲁⲩϭⲟⲓⲗⲉ
r.14   ⲉⲡκόσμος ⲙⲡϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲛⲟϭ δέ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁϥϫⲓ ⲟⲩⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ
r.15   ⲙⲡⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲁⲓλυπεῖν ⲉⲙⲁⲧⲉ ⲉⲙⲁⲧⲉ ἀλλά ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲉϥϩⲓⲏ ⲥⲟⲩⲧⲛ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲓⲧⲥ
r.16   ⲉⲁϩⲉⲛⲙⲓϣⲉ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲙⲛ ϩⲉⲛϣⲧⲟⲣⲧⲣ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥϩⲱⲃ ⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉⲣⲏⲥ ϣⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲩⲧⲁⲩⲉ ⲧαἰτία ⲉⲣⲟⲓ
r.17   ϫⲉ ⲧⲉⲥπαρθενία ⲟⲩⲟϫ ⲁⲛ ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲛⲧⲁⲓ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲁϥⲣ ⲁⲧⲥⲱⲧⲙ
r.18   ⲛⲥⲱⲓ ⲁⲓⲕⲁ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉκρίτης ⲙⲙⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϣⲗⲏⲗ ⲙⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.19   ⲙⲛⲥⲁ ⲧⲣⲉϥⲃⲱⲕ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲁⲩἀπατᾶν ⲛⲛⲉϥⲙⲉⲩⲉ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ϩⲉⲛϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛκολακεία ⲁⲩⲕⲁⲁⲥ
r.20   ⲛⲁϥ ⲁϥϫⲡⲟ ⲛϩⲉⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉϥϩⲏⲧ ⲙⲟⲕϩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲛϥⲧⲁⲩⲟ ⲡⲉϥⲙⲕⲁϩ
r.21   ⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ⲛϩⲁϩ ⲛⲥⲟⲡ ⲛϥⲧⲣⲉⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ ⲛⲙⲕⲁϩ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲟ ἀλλά ⲙⲡⲉⲓⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.22   ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲁσπλάγχνον ⲛⲉ ⲁⲓϯ ⲟⲩⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛⲁϥ ⲉⲧⲣⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲏⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥσκεῦος
r.23   εἴτε ϩⲁⲧ εἴτε ⲛⲟⲩⲃ εἴτε ⲃⲁⲣⲱⲧ εἴτε ϩⲟⲓⲧⲉ ἁπλῶς ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁϥⲥⲉⲛⲁϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉϥⲥⲏϩ
r.24   ϩⲛ ⲕⲉⲙⲁ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϭⲙ ⲡⲉϥϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲁϥⲙⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.25   ϩⲓ ⲟⲩⲥⲟⲡ ⲙⲡϥⲕⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛσπέρμα ⲉϥⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲁϥ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁⲁϥ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓκόσμος ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϩⲱ ⲉⲧⲉⲓⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲛⲁⲙⲁ ⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ϩⲁ ⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲁκληρονομία ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.26   ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉϥπρόσωπον ⲛⲁϫⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲏⲓ δέ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲁϥ ⲉⲁϥⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ϣⲁⲛⲧϥⲙⲟⲩ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲉϣ κληρονομεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲥⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ὡς ⲉⲥⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲣⲟϥ οὔδε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲥπρόσωπον ἀλλά ⲉⲣⲉⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲛⲁϫⲓⲧϥ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ ⲛϥκληρονομεῖν
r.27   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥϣⲏⲣⲉ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲛσκεῦος δέ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲁϥ ⲉϥⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.28   ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉϥⲙⲟⲩ ⲁⲓϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲥⲱⲟⲩ ⲁⲓϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲉϥⲧⲁⲕⲉ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ϣⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ εἶδος ⲉϥⲟⲛϩ ἀλλά ⲁⲓϩⲉ
r.29   ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲟⲩⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩⲡⲁϣⲉ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲧⲉϯ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧἐξουσία ⲛⲧⲟⲕ
r.30   ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲟⲩⲁϣϥ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲕⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲕϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲥⲁ εἶδος ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϫⲡⲟϥ ϩⲱⲱϥ ϣⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲩεἶδος ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲉϥⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ ἤ ⲉϥϭⲟϫⲃ
r.31   ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ϩⲱⲱⲕ ⲛⲅⲙⲟⲩϩ ⲡⲉϥδανειστής ⲉⲧⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲟⲩϭⲁⲥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲕⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲕϫⲛⲟⲩ ⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲕⲟⲩⲁϣϥ ⲉϫⲛ ⲟⲩεἶδος ⲛⲃⲗϫⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧκελεύειν ⲛὅσον ⲉⲓⲟⲛϩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲟⲛ ⲁϥϯ ⲧἐξουσία ⲛⲁⲓ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛⲉⲧϩⲙⲟⲟⲥ ϩⲁϩⲧⲏϥ ⲙⲡⲛⲁⲩ
r.32   ⲉϥⲛⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲧⲉϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ϩⲱⲥ ⲛⲥⲱⲣⲕ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲥⲛⲧϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱϥ ⲛⲥϥⲓⲧϥ παρά μέρος
r.33   ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲱⲱⲕ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲛⲅⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲥ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲛχήρα ⲉⲧϩⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲱⲕ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲕⲧⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲧⲟ ⲛⲛⲁⲧϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲅⲕⲁⲁⲥ
r.34   ⲛⲥⲃⲱⲕ ⲉⲡⲉⲥⲏⲓ μετά καλός ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲡⲉⲥϯⲙⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲉⲓ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲧϩⲁⲧⲣⲉ δέ ⲧⲁϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ⲁⲓⲡⲟⲗϭⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲡⲉⲥμέρος ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲓⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲣⲟϥ κατά ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.35   ⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ εἴτε ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲱⲓ ⲡⲉ ϩⲁ ⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ εἴτε ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϩⲱⲥ ⲙⲛⲧⲥⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἔγκλημα
r.36   ⲙⲛ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲡⲉⲥⲥⲟⲛ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛεἶδος ϫⲓⲛ ⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲉⲥⲉⲓⲱⲧ ἀλλά
r.37   ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱⲟⲩ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲩⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲑⲁⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲡⲁϣϥ ⲉϫⲱⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲣⲁ
r.38   ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲟⲩⲧⲟ ⲉⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲟⲩⲧⲟ ⲉⲑⲁⲧⲣⲉ ⲡⲕⲉⲣⲁ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲛἀγάπη ϩⲁ ⲧⲉψυχή
r.39   ⲛⲛⲧⲁⲩⲛⲕⲟⲧⲕ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲥⲟⲩⲥⲁⲛⲁ ⲧⲉϥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲣⲧⲩⲣⲓⲁ ⲧⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲟⲩⲥⲁⲛⲛⲁ
r.40   ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ δέ ⲙⲛⲥⲁ ⲡⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲑⲁⲧⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲁⲛϩⲉ ⲉⲡκαιρός ⲛἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲥⲛⲏⲩ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲥⲟⲩⲥⲁⲛⲛⲁ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲉπρόσωπον ⲙⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲁϥⲛⲕⲟⲧⲕ
r.41   ⲛⲥⲉϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ϫⲓ ⲧⲉⲩⲧⲟ ⲁⲛⲡⲱⲗⲕ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲩⲟⲛϩ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ
r.42   ϯⲕⲱ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲙⲡⲉⲓⲙⲁ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲓⲱⲣⲕ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡπαντοκράτωρ ⲡⲁ ⲛⲉⲓⲛⲟϭ
r.43   ⲛϣⲡⲏⲣⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲉⲥⲟⲩⲥⲁⲛⲛⲁ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲡⲉⲥⲉⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱⲓ
r.44   ⲉⲛⲉϩ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲟⲩⲛϣⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲛⲁⲙⲉⲉⲩⲉ εἴτε ⲛⲧⲉⲛⲉⲥⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲁⲥ ⲉⲡⲉⲥⲛⲟⲩϩⲣⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ἤ ⲛⲥϥⲓⲧϥ ⲛϫⲓⲟⲩⲉ ⲛⲥⲧϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲛεἶδος δέ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲡⲟϣⲟⲩ
r.45   ⲉϫⲱⲛ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲅⲏⲣⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲧⲉ ⲁⲛⲕⲁ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲉⲡⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ
r.46   ⲡⲁϣⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲡⲟϣⲟⲩ ἀλλά ⲁⲛστοιχεῖν ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲅⲏⲣⲁ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲥⲓⲃⲗⲉ
r.47   ⲟⲩⲱⲣⲕ ⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲕⲉⲥⲉⲉⲡⲉ ⲛεἶδος ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ δέ ⲛⲧⲁⲩδικάζειν ⲉϫⲱⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲟⲩϯ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ὅλως ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲙⲛ ⲅⲏⲣⲁ ἀλλά ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲥⲓⲃⲗⲁ ⲛⲛⲧⲁⲩϥⲓⲧⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲟⲩⲉϣ ⲉἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ
r.48   ⲙⲛ ⲡⲕⲉⲥⲉⲡⲉ ⲛεἶδος ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲧκελεύειν κατά ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲓπληροφορεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ μήποτε ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲁⲩⲟ ϩⲉⲛⲗⲟⲓϭⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲡⲱⲗⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲉϥⲟⲛϩ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ
r.49   ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲉⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲁⲩⲁⲁⲧ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ϫⲉ ϩⲁ
r.50   ⲡⲙⲁ ⲙⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ πρεσβύτερος ϩⲁ ⲡⲉϥⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥⲕⲟⲧϥ ⲉⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ϩⲱⲱⲧ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲡπρεσβύτερος ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ϩⲱ
r.51   ⲛⲧⲉϯ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲙⲁⲩⲁⲁⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲕκληρονομεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ
r.52   ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲕ ⲉⲩⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲛⲥⲱⲕ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϣ ⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲉⲛⲉϩ εἴτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ εἴτε ϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ
r.53   εἴτε ϣⲛ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲙⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲕⲟⲗⲗⲟⲩⲑⲟⲥ
r.54   ⲧⲉϥⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲛϫⲟⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲛⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲟⲗⲗⲟⲩⲑⲟⲥ ⲧⲕⲉⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲉⲧⲁκαμάρα ⲧⲉ ⲉⲥϫⲓ
r.55   ⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲡⲏⲓ ⲙⲡⲃⲗⲗⲉ ⲧⲕⲉϫⲟⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲧϩⲓⲣϩⲓⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲣⲟ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ
r.56   ⲧⲕⲉϫⲟⲉ ⲉⲣⲏⲥ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲉⲓⲧ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲛⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲛⲧⲟⲩⲃⲁ ⲛⲧⲁⲓὀνομάζειν ⲛⲛⲣⲁⲛ ⲛⲛἀρχαῖος ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ϩⲛ ⲛⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϩⲁ ⲑⲏ ⲙⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲟⲉ
r.57   ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲁⲁⲕ ⲕⲟⲧⲥ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲙⲛⲧⲁⲛ παρρησία ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ
r.58   ⲉⲛϩⲓ ⲡϣⲙⲙⲟ μήπως ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϯ ⲑⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲅⲕⲱⲧ ⲛⲥⲉἐνάγειν ϫⲉ
r.59   ⲙⲁⲩⲕⲁⲁⲕ ⲉⲟⲩⲉϩ ⲥⲟⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϣⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲥⲁ ϩⲉⲛⲉⲕⲱⲧ ⲥⲉⲛⲁⲧⲁⲙⲟⲕ ϫⲉ ⲧⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲁϫⲟⲉ
r.60   ⲙⲡⲓⲧⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲡⲉⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲕⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲟⲩⲉϩⲥⲟⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲉⲛⲉϩ μόνον ϫⲉ ϯϫⲟⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲙⲁⲩⲁⲥ
r.61   ἀλλά ⲛⲕⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛⲁ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲁⲛϩ δέ ⲉⲧⲛϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲕⲓⲧ ⲛⲡϩⲁⲓ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ϣⲁ ⲛⲉϥⲧⲟϣ ⲕⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲕⲟⲧϥ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲉⲧⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.62   ⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲡⲉⲧⲉϩⲛⲁⲕ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲣⲁ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ οὖν ⲛⲛⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲧⲁϩⲟϥ ϩⲁ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ
r.63   ϩⲁ ⲣⲏⲥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲧⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲧⲁ ⲑⲩⲣⲉ ⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲣⲁ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϩ ⲉⲧⲙⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ
r.64   ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲑⲁⲧⲣⲉ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϩⲁ ⲥⲁⲣⲁ ⲧⲉⲥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲛⲧⲉϯ
r.65   ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲁⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.66   ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲑⲁⲧⲣⲉ δέ ⲧⲁϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲉⲕⲥⲱⲛⲉ ϩⲱⲱⲕ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲉϣ ⲛⲟϫⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲛⲉⲥⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.67   ⲉⲥⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲛⲉⲥϩⲟⲟⲩ μήποτε ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲉⲥϣⲏⲣⲉ ϫⲓ ⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲛⲧⲉⲡⲉⲥϩⲏⲧ ⲙⲧⲟⲛ ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲥ ⲛⲥⲉⲓ ⲛⲥⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲡⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲛ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲧⲱⲙⲛⲧ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛⲙⲟⲩ δέ
r.68   εἴτε ⲕⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ εἴτε ⲉⲕⲙⲟⲟⲩⲧ ⲛⲛⲉⲥⲉϣ κελεύειν ⲛϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉ ϣⲁⲓⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲙⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ἤ
r.69   ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲓⲟⲩϣϥ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛϫⲟⲟϥ ⲥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲟ ⲛⲛⲟϭ ⲙⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ
r.70   ⲉϥϣⲁⲛἀνέχειν ⲛⲁⲥ ⲉⲣ ⲡⲁⲓ ϥⲟ ϩⲱⲱϥ ⲟⲛ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ
r.71   ⲉⲁϥⲣ ⲧⲉϥⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ ϣⲁⲛⲧϥⲙⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲛⲉⲥⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ εἰ μή τι ⲉⲡⲉⲥἰδικόν ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲟⲩϫⲣⲟⲡ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲛⲛⲉⲥκωλύειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲉⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲡⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲱⲕ
r.72   ⲡⲉ ⲙⲁⲩⲁⲁⲕ ἀλλά ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲕⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲣ ⲡⲁⲓ ϫⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ϣⲟⲕⲉ
r.73   ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ϣⲁ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲉⲧⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ϫⲉ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ϩⲁ
r.74   ⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ εἴτε ⲏⲓ εἴτε ⲁⲛϩ εἴτε σκεῦος ⲛⲓⲙ ϫⲓⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ ϣⲁ ⲡⲉⲧⲥⲟϣϥ
r.75   ⲉⲩⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲕ ϣⲁϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲩνοῦμμος ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ
r.76   ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲁⲕ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ … ⲡⲉⲧⲉ
r.77   ⲙⲡ[ⲉ]ⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ἤ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲓνοεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲧⲣⲁⲥϩⲁⲓϥ ἤ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲙⲡⲓⲣ ⲡⲉϥⲙⲉⲩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉⲥϩⲁⲓϥ
r.78   ἀλλά ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ϯⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ὅσος ⲉⲓⲟⲛϩ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος
r.79   ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉ μήποτε ὅσος ⲉⲓⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲧⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲉⲛⲅⲟⲃϣⲕ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ⲉⲕϣⲁⲛⲣ ⲡⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲱⲛϩ ⲉⲕⲛⲁκληρονομεῖν ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲡⲱⲓ ⲡⲉ ⲙⲛⲥⲁ ⲡⲁⲙⲟⲩ ⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲏⲏⲧⲉ
r.80   οὖν ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲉⲩⲧⲁϫⲣⲟ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲕ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲛⲏⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲁⲕ εἴτε ϫⲱϩ εἴτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ εἴτε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.81   ⲙⲡⲛⲣ ⲡⲉϥⲙⲉⲩⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ
r.82   ⲡⲉⲡⲛⲉⲩⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉτριάς ⲉⲧϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛπροσκυνεῖν ⲛⲁⲥ ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.83   ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ⲉⲥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲛⲁⲧϣⲟⲗⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ ⲧⲉ ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲣ ⲛⲁⲓ
r.84   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧⲥ κατά ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ
r.85   ⲉⲓⲟⲩⲏϩ ϩⲓ ⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲧⲉ διαθήκη ⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ δέ ⲉⲓⲟⲛϩ
r.86   εἴτε ⲙⲛⲥⲁ ⲧⲣⲁⲕⲱ σῶμα ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ κατά ⲡⲧⲱϣ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁἐνάγειν ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ
r.87   ϩⲁ ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉϣⲟⲗⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ εἴτε ⲥⲟⲛ εἴτε ⲥⲱⲛⲉ εἴτε ϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲛⲥⲟⲛ εἴτε
r.88   κληρονόμος εἴτε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲉ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα
r.89   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ κοινωνία ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛχριστιανός ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥϯ ⲟⲩⲛϭ ⲛⲛⲟⲥⲉ
r.90   ⲙⲡἄρχων ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲛⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ κατά ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲙⲡἄρχων
r.91   ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲁⲩⲟⲩⲱϣ ὅλως ⲉϣⲟϫⲛⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲩϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲃⲱⲗ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲉδιαθήκη
r.92   ⲧⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧϩⲁ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓⲱⲱⲥ
r.93   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἐπίσκοπος ⲉⲧⲧⲏϣ ⲙⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉϥϣⲁⲛⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲛϥἀμελεῖν ⲛϥⲧⲁ[ⲕⲟ]
r.94   ⲛⲧⲉδιαθήκη ἤ ⲛϥϫⲟⲟϥ ὅλως ϫⲉ ⲛⲥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲁⲛ ⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉϣⲟⲗⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.95   κἄν ϩⲓⲧⲛ ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛκολακία ἤ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲛⲁⲑⲏⲧ ἤ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ϩⲉⲛσπονδάριον
r.96   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥϩⲛ ⲧτάξις ⲛⲧⲙⲛⲧⲟⲩⲏⲏⲃ εἴτε ἐπίσκοπος εὑτε πρεσβύτερος
r.97   εἴτε διάκων εἴτε ἀναγώστης εἴτε λαικός ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉϣⲱⲗ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲉδιαθήκη ϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲁϫⲓ
r.98   ϩⲁⲡ ⲛⲙⲙⲁϥ ϩⲓ ⲡβῆμα ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲁ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲟⲛ ⲡἄρχων ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲙⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ
r.99   εἴτε προνοητής εἴτε ⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲉ εἴτε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως ⲉϥⲛⲁἄρχειν ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϥϣⲱⲗ
r.100  ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲉδιαθήκη ϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲣⲉϥⲧⲁⲛϩⲟ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲧⲓδιαθήκη ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.101  ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲥⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲛⲧⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲁⲩ
r.102  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲑⲉⲟⲫⲁⲛⲏ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲁⲕⲉ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲧπόλις ⲕⲱⲥ ⲁⲡⲁⲓⲱⲧ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ
r.103  ἐπιτρέπειν ⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲓⲣ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲉδιαθήκη πρός ⲧⲉϥαἴτησις
r.104  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛⲁⲃⲉⲣⲛⲟⲩⲕⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲛⲧκαθολικός ⲙⲡⲓⲥⲓⲛⲁⲓ ϯⲟ ⲙμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲉⲓδιαθήκη πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡμοναχός
r.105  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲗⲗⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲙⲱⲛ ⲡἡγούμενος ϯⲟ ⲙμάρτυρος
r.106  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲥⲁⲁⲕ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲙⲱⲛ ϩⲙ ⲡⲓⲥⲓⲛⲁⲓ ϯⲟ ⲙμάρτυρος
r.107  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲫⲓⲗⲟⲑⲉⲟⲥ ⲙⲙⲉⲩⲥ ϩⲛ ⲡⲓϣⲏⲛⲁⲓ ϯⲟ ⲙμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲉδιαθήκη πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲓⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.108  ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙμοναχός ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ πρεσβύτερος ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲕⲟⲗⲗⲟⲩⲑⲟⲥ ⲛⲯⲉⲛⲁⲛⲧⲱⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲉδιαθήκη ϩⲛ ⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ
r.109  ⲁⲩⲱ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν ⲛϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.110  ⲙπιστός ⲁⲩμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϣⲟⲗⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲁⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲥⲁϩⲛⲉ ϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉκοινωνία ⲛⲛⲓⲙ ⲛχριστιανός

[TRANSLATION]
1     … the consubstantial Trinity.
2     … the month Hathyr 6 of the ninth year, the 9th indiction.
3     … the monk, the son of Epiphanios,
4     … [Psenantonios], this one who is under the nome of the city of Kebt … with my whole heart
5     and my whole will, being … with no compulsion laid upon me,
6     neither violence nor seizure, but of my own will and my free choice, with a sound mind and good counsel and with an untroubled mind, my intellect (nous) being upon me
7     and my reckoning (logismos) firm, my heart established … with my whole heart and my free choice, that I write to you, you my son Jacob, my beloved, that I write to you
8     a written deed, valid, and not to be undone, an eternal testament (diatheke) for you and your children
9     and the children of your children and all those of your will, who shall obey you according to your word. I, Paham, have written this testament with my own hand, dwelling on the mountain of Djeme,
10    being a monk. They saw that I had no one according to the flesh near me in that place; I considered that man does not know his way (his end); I said, lest a sickness
11    come upon me and I die suddenly, with no man against me to declare my word to him, concerning
12    the small things, the least, that belong to me from my father and my mother and their place of dwelling.
13    Since … three children: I went and became a monk; I left them living. They were established
14    in the world, the three; but on account of the great son, Papnoute, he took a wife from outside
15    my will. I grieved exceedingly, exceedingly; but his way was not straightened from then; he took her
16    while quarrels arose and troubles in his affair. They came south to me; they laid the charge against me,
17    that her virginity was not whole. I said, I have no business with him, because he was disobedient
18    to me; I left the matter to God, the true judge, and to the prayers of my holy father.
19    After he had departed from me, they deceived his thoughts through words of flattery; they made it (the matter) lie down
20    for him; he begot children with her, his heart being grieved over it, and he used to come and recount his grief
21    of heart to me many times, making my heart grieve the more; but I did not wish to cast him out
22    because of God, for they were my compassion (splanchnon); I gave him a small place to dwell in, in my house, with his vessels (skeue),
23    whether silver or gold or bronze (barot) or clothing — in short, whatever I had given him is established for him in writing
24    in another place. Afterwards God carried out his visitation upon him in the manner of every man: he died, with his children
25    at once; he left no living seed for him. Now in the manner that God made him a stranger to this world with his children, I also am making him a stranger to all my places of dwelling that came to me from my fathers and his wife, and the inheritance (kleronomia) that belongs to me now, so that no one
26    making representation for him shall receive (anything) from them; but concerning the house that I gave to him, that he had dwelt in until he died — his wife may inherit (kleronomein) it and dwell in it, as she is mistress over it; nor (shall) anyone make representation for her, but Jacob shall receive it from her and inherit
27    it with his children forever and ever. But concerning the vessels (skeue) that I gave to him, while he, Papnoute, was alive,
28    when he died, I sought after them and found them; he had wasted nothing of them, up to a living item (eidos), but I found
29    with him two solidi (holokottinoi) and one share. Behold now, I give you the authority, you
30    Jacob my son, whom I have loved, my beloved; and become lord, so that you seek after every item (eidos) that I gave to Papnoute and what he himself acquired, up to one single item, whether of value or of little worth;
31    and afterwards, you yourself, you shall fill the creditor (daneistes), the two — that is, one and a half solidi (holokottinoi); and become lord, so that you question his wife under the holy invocation, in every place where you wish, concerning any worthless item, because I am the one who gives orders, as long as I am alive; and afterwards too he (God) gave me the authority through those who sit beside him, at the time
32    when his wife shall die, so as to remove from what she brought in to it, and take it away, part by part.
33    You yourself too, Jacob, deal with her in the manner of widows (cherai) who are with you in your village, who are childless; let her
34    go to her house in peace and to her village from which she came. But concerning the dowry of my daughter, I have separated her share in everything, being lord over it, according to what God
35    cast into my heart, whether for what is mine from my fathers or for her mother — so that there is no charge (enklema) at all;
36    nor (shall) Jacob her brother (claim) any item from today onward against me, I Paham her father; but
37    if anyone shall come in against them, on account of their mother — Jacob and Thatre shall divide it among themselves three (parts):
38    three, one to Jacob, one to Thatre, and the third part, three, they are to give them for love (agape) for the soul (psyche)
39    of those who have fallen asleep, that is Papnoute, and Susanna his mother, and Martyria the mother of Susanna.
40    But if, after my death, you, Jacob and Thatre, shall find the occasion to sue, with the brothers of your mother Susanna, that is John, and the representatives of Synthios (?) who has fallen asleep,
41    and they shall say, "Your mother and your father took their dowry; we divided it with them while they were alive" — behold,
42    I set it down here, under my holy invocation, swearing by God the Almighty, who (does) these great
43    wonders, that when Susanna, your sister, came in to me, I Paham, her brother had nothing (to claim) against me
44    ever, openly; if there is anything against him in my memories, whether her parents gave it to her for her bread-money, or he took it by theft and brought it in against me, concerning the items (eide) which we apportioned
45    over us — I Paham and Gera and John and Synte (?) — we set aside some others for our remainder and
46    my remainder, at the time when we apportioned them, but we agreed, I Paham and Gera, that Sible (?)
47    should swear an oath for us concerning the rest of the items; concerning the gold that they adjudicated (dikazein) over them, they did not give us any of them at all, I Paham and Gera, but John and Sible (?) took them, and afterwards, at any time when you wish to sue them concerning the gold
48    and the rest of the items, it is for you to give orders according to your wish. Behold, I have given assurance (plerophorein) of them under my invocation of the Lord, lest they bring up pretexts that "we divided with your father" while he was alive. I, Paham, the one who first wrote, above, with my hand
49    of my own self — for I wrote the testament with my own hand alone — I write to Jacob my son, that for
50    the place of the house that came to me through Epiphanios the presbyter, on the part of his father, my Paham — because it is he who turned it (claimed it), having come against me, even me, the son of Epiphanios the presbyter — behold, I also
51    give it to you alone with your children, that you may inherit (kleronomein) it, with those who shall come
52    after you, obeying you, so that no man shall ever come out against you, whether son or daughter
53    or son of a son, concerning that house which lies to the west of Saint Kollouthos,
54    one its boat (?) is on the street of Apa Kollouthos, the other being the one with the vault (kamara), it taking
55    a portion (touching) the house of the blind man; the other boat (?) up to the road, the gate facing the door inward; concerning
56    the other boat (?) to the south, the house of the well (?) which is Samuel's, with the house of Abraham of Touba, which I named with the ancient names that exist in those houses before today, concerning the boat (?)
57    which Isaac turned (claimed) in violence, because we had no freedom (parrhesia) at that time;
58    we were strangers, lest, if God grant occasion to you, you should build, and they sue (you), saying,
59    "He did not leave you a footing toward it." Seek after some builders (?); they shall inform you whose are the boats (?)
60    below, and (those) which our parents left as a footing forever; only that I (claim) this boat (?) alone;
61    but the others all that surround (it) are of the house; on account of the courtyard that is within, the place for sleeping of the hall (hai), it shall belong to you, all of it, up to its boundaries; you wish to turn (build) it, you who are lord
62    over every matter, as you please. Concerning the three houses, then, that I gained on my mother's part,
63    to the south, in the village which is Thyre's (?), with the three of the dwelling that is in that place,
64    which came over Thatre my mother, on the part of Sara her mother — behold, I, Paham, give
65    them to you, you Jacob my son, so that no man shall ever sue you concerning them forever;
66    but concerning Thatre, she is my daughter and your sister, you yourself may not cast her out from the place she is in,
67    she dwelling all her days, lest her son take a wife and her heart be not at rest with her, and she come and dwell in it; because man does not know what he shall meet with. But if she shall die,
68    whether you be living or you be dead — they shall not (be able) to give orders to say, "I give it to my son" or
69    to whom she wishes; if she say so, he is a stranger to God, and he who is great at that time,
70    if he bear with her in doing this, he too is likewise a stranger to God; because I saw my father
71    when he became her brother (intimate?) in this way until he died; and let her not let any stranger dwell in it, except in her own private (idion part), so that no quarrel arise. You, do not hinder her from dwelling in what is yours;
72    it is yours alone; but you shall not let any stranger dwell in it. I did this because there is no one struggling (?)
73    up to that place. I, Paham, who write to Jacob, that in every matter that came over me on the part
74    of my parents, whether house or court or any vessel (skeuos), from the most valuable to the most worthless,
75    they shall all become yours, with your children and those who come after you, down to a single nummos,
76    so that no man shall ever sue you concerning any matter … the one which
77    I did not write, or that which I did not think to write, or that which I did not remember to write —
78    but all these, I am lord over them, I, as long as I am alive. I, Paham, the least,
79    said that, lest, as long as I am alive, I should fall into a sickness and you grow weary of me — if you do my will in my life, you shall inherit (kleronomein) every matter that is mine after my death. Behold,
80    therefore, I have established the testament (diatheke) with my hand, that it may be secure for you and those who come after you; and any man whatever who shall come out against you concerning the testament, wishing to sue you, whether kinsman or kinsman of a kinsman or man,
81    who does not (heed) his memory — whoever shall come out against him shall be a stranger to the Father and the Son and
82    the Holy Spirit and the perfect Trinity, that one whom we worship (proskynein) at all times.
83    The testament shall be valid and firm and not to be undone, because this is the way it has happened to me,
84    and I willed it; I established it according to what God cast into my heart, with my own hand,
85    while dwelling on the mountain of Djeme at the time when I established the testament; but if I am alive
86    or after I lay down my body (according to the lot of every man) — whoever shall sue you, you Jacob,
87    concerning the testament, wishing, wishing to undo it, whether brother or sister or wife of a brother or
88    heir (kleronomos) or man whatever — he shall become a stranger to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit
89    and from all communion (koinonia) of the Christians; and afterwards he shall give a great fine (?)
90    to the magistrate (archon) who rules at that time, according to what God shall cast into the heart of that magistrate,
91    because they desired at all to take counsel in their heart to undo the testament,
92    that one upon which the name of God is written, with the holy invocation that is in fear, which we laid upon it,
93    and the bishop (episkopos) who is appointed at the time, if he wishes to be negligent (amelein) and destroy
94    the testament, or to say at all that it is not valid, wishing to undo it,
95    whether through words of flattery or through foolish men or through cup-bearers (spondaria),
96    and any man whatever who is in the rank (taxis) of the priesthood, whether bishop or presbyter
97    or deacon or reader or layman — whoever shall wish to undo the testament shall be a stranger to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and he shall come in to be judged
98    with him at the tribunal (bema) of God which is in fear; and afterwards, too, the magistrate (archon) who rules at the time,
99    whether administrator (pronoetes) or lashane (village-head) of the village or man whatever who shall rule over men, who shall undo
100   the testament, shall be a stranger to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, consubstantial, and the One who gives life. I, Paham, established this testament with my own hand, secured,
101   and being valid in every place where it shall be produced.
102   I, Theophane son of the blessed Joannake, the man of the city of Kos — my father Paham
103   entrusted (it) to me; I bore witness to the testament according to his request.
104   I, Nabernoukios, the least presbyter of the catholic (church) of this Sinai, I am a witness to this testament according to the request of Apa Paham the monk.
105   I, Kyrillos son of the blessed Phoibammon, the abbot (hegoumenos), I am a witness.
106   I, Isaac son of the blessed Phoibammon, in this Sinai, I am a witness.
107   I, Philotheos of Memes (?), in this Shenai (?), I am a witness to the testament according to the manner in which it is written.
108   I, Paham, the least monk, son of Epiphanios the presbyter of Saint Kollouthos of Psenantonios — I, Paham, wrote the testament with my own hand,
109   and I consent (stoichein) to everything written in it; and afterwards I besought some other men,
110   the faithful, and they testified to it; and whoever shall undo it against my command shall be a stranger to communion (koinonia) of the Christians.
