[META]
id:       P.KRU 95
label:    P.KRU 95
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     747 CE – 748 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (747 CE – 748 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de donation d’un enfant à un monastère. Économe. Liturgie. Femme
tm:       85996
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;95
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϣἐνάγειν ⲙⲡτόπος [ⲉⲧ]ⲙⲙⲁⲩ … ⲛⲧ …
r.2    ⲛⲏⲧϥ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲣⲱⲙⲉ
r.3    ⲉϥϫⲏϩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡγένος ⲛⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ οὔτε ἀρχοντικόν ἤ ἐκκλησιαστικόν ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓδωρίζειν
r.4    ⲙⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ
r.5    ⲧⲁⲣϥⲣ ϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲙ ⲙⲛⲧϭⲁⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲁϥ ⲙⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲧⲉⲩϣⲏ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ
r.6    ⲡεὐλαβέστατος ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡκειμηλιάρχης ⲁⲩⲱ
r.7    ⲡοἰκονόμος ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲙⲱⲛ
r.8    ⲛϥⲁⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥϫⲟⲕⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.9    ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲁ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲉϥⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲕ
r.10   ἀδιακωλύτως ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ δέ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.11   ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲕ ⲡϥοἰκονόμος ⲉⲕⲛⲁⲉⲓ
r.12   ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲅⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲅκυριεύειν ⲁⲩⲱ
r.13   ⲛⲅⲉⲣ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲕⲟⲙⲟⲥ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓδωρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓσαφηνίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛϩⲁϩ ⲛⲥⲟⲡ ⲧⲁⲣⲕⲣ ⲡϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.14   ⲉⲧⲣϥⲉⲣ ὑπουργία ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.15   ⲛⲁϥ ⲛϥϫⲟⲕⲟⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ἀνεμποδίστως ⲁⲩⲱ ⲟⲛ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛκαταφρόνησις οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.16   ⲛκλοπή ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲉϥⲉⲣ ϩⲱⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉϥⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.17   ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲁϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛϥϫⲓ ⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ὅπερ μὴ γένοιτο ⲉⲣⲉⲛⲉϥϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲉϥⲛⲁϫⲡⲟ
r.18   ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲩλειτουργεῖν ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ
r.19   ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲛⲧⲉϥϩⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϫⲱⲛϥ ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν
r.20   ⲛϥⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉϣⲟⲗϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ἤ ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.21   ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲕⲟⲙⲟⲥ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ
r.22   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥϫⲓ ⲙⲡⲥⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲙⲡδευτερονόμος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥⲧⲓ ⲧⲁⲥⲟⲩ ⲛⲟⲩσωμάτιον
r.23   ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεά
r.24   ⲉⲡⲱⲣϫ οὖν ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉⲧⲛεὐλαβέστατος
r.25   ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ ϥⲟⲣϫ ϥϭⲙ ϭⲟⲙ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.26   ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲥⲟⲩϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ ⲛⲧⲁὁμολογεῖν
r.27   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲣⲓϩⲁⲙ ⲧϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ
r.28   ϩⲛⲧⲟⲟⲩⲧ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεά
r.29   πρός ⲑⲏ ⲉⲧϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛⲱϩⲉ
r.30   ⲡⲉπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲁⲥαἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲥ πρός ⲧⲉⲥαἴτησις
r.31   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲑⲱⲙⲁ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.32   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲇ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲯⲁⲧⲏ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον
r.33   ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲉχάρτης πρός ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ
r.34   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲭⲉⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.35   δι᾽ ἐμοῦ ἀριστοφάνου

[TRANSLATION]
1     no man (shall be able) to bring suit against that place … … …
2     for it; neither I, nor brother, nor any man,
3     belonging to the race of men, neither of the magistracy nor of the church; because I have donated
4     my beloved son in to the place of Apa Phoibamon,
5     that he may become a servant to it in every servitude that you shall command him, by day and by night; you,
6     the most pious Kyriakos, the treasurer, and
7     the steward of the holy place of Apa Phoibammon,
8     that he do them and complete them, from now until ever,
9     and for all time, forever, coming after you,
10    unhindered; from now then to you, the holy place
11    of Apa Phoibamon, through you, its steward, you shall come
12    in and take hold and rule over (it), and
13    become the lord of Komos my beloved son, this one whom I have donated in to the holy place, this one whom I declared to you many times, that you may become his lord,
14    that he do every service that you shall command him,
15    and that he complete them unimpeded; and also that you not find in him any contempt, nor any
16    theft, but that he do work and obey in every matter
17    which you shall command him; and if it should happen that he take a wife — which God forbid — and his children whom he shall beget
18    shall become serving the holy place of Apa
19    Phoibamon likewise. Whoever shall transgress this deed of donation,
20    and wish to annul it, or to bring suit against the holy place
21    concerning Komos my beloved son, he shall be a stranger to this Father and
22    the Son and the Holy Spirit, and he shall draw the curses of the Deuteronomy, and he shall pay, as their reckoning, a body(-document/soma)
23    of (a) man; and afterwards he shall come in and approach this donation;
24    therefore, against the separation of the holy place and your most pious
25    (selves), I have established it, firm and valid in every place where it shall be produced,
26    and they shall question me, and I shall acknowledge.
27    I, Mariham the daughter of Daniel,
28    by my own hand, I consent to this donation
29    according to the way it is written. I, Nohe
30    the presbyter and the abbot, she having requested of me, I have written on her behalf according to her request.
31    I, Thoma (son of) the blessed Biktor, I bear witness.
32    I, David the son of the blessed Psate, the man of the fortress
33    of Djeme, I bear witness to this document according to the capacity of him who set it down.
34    I, Pcher the son of the blessed Enoch, the man of the fortress of Djeme, I bear witness.
35    Through me, Aristophanes.
