[META]
id:       P.KRU 35
label:    P.KRU 35
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     701 CE – 725 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (701 CE – 725 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de partage d’un héritage. Maison. Femmes. Lashanés. Higoumène. Protocole bilingue grec-arabe. Au verso — un contrat d’annulation d’une garantie
tm:       85936
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;35
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ϩⲙ ⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲙⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.2    τριάς ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲉⲧϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲣⲉϥⲧⲁⲛϩⲟ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉκράτος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲧⲁϫⲣⲟ ⲙⲛ ⲧδιαμονή
r.3    ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲣⲣⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲉϫⲙ ⲡⲕⲁ[ϩ]
r.4    ⲧⲏⲣϥ ϩⲓⲧⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲉϩⲥⲁϩⲛⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡπαντοκράρτωρ
r.5    ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲥⲟⲩ ϣⲙⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲃⲟⲧ ⲫⲁⲱⲫⲉ
r.6    ⲛⲧⲓⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ τρίτος ἰνδικτιών ⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲛτιμιώτατος
r.7    ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲑⲱⲙⲁⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲛⲁⲛⲓⲁⲥ
r.8    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ ⲛⲗⲁϣⲛⲓⲟⲩ ⲙⲡκάστρον
r.9    ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις ⲉⲣⲙⲁⲛⲑⲓⲟⲩ χαίρειν
r.10   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲁⲓⲅⲁⲓⲁ ⲧϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲡδιάκονος ⲁⲩⲱ
r.11   ⲡμοναχός ⲛⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲧⲉ ⲧμακάριος
r.12   ⲧⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲉⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲓ συνευδοκεῖν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲓ
r.13   ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡνομός
r.14   ⲛⲧπόλις ⲉⲣⲙⲁⲛⲑⲓⲟⲩ ⲉⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲗⲓⲥⲁⲃⲉⲕ ⲧϣⲛ
r.15   ⲡμακάριος ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲉⲥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲧⲉ ⲧμακάριος
r.16   ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡⲓνομός ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ
r.17   ⲉⲛⲕⲱ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲛϯ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁὑπογράφειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲛμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲛϣⲟⲩ πιστεύειν ⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις κατά ⲧⲁαἴτησις ⲧⲱⲛ ⲙⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ χαίρειν
r.18   ἐπειδή ϩⲙ ⲡⲓκαιρός ⲡⲁⲓ ⲁⲛπείθειν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ
r.19   ϩⲛ ⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲛⲡⲱϣ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲛⲉⲛμακάριος
r.20   ⲉϫⲱⲛ κατά ⲧⲓϩⲉ πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲟⲩⲟⲛϩ ⲡμέρος
r.21   ⲙⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲛⲧⲛδιαστέλλειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲡⲉ ⲛⲧⲱ μέν ⲗⲓⲥⲁⲃⲉⲧ
r.22   ⲧⲥⲟⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲁμακάριος ⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲁⲣⲧⲁϩⲟ ⲧⲣⲓ ⲉⲧϩⲁ ⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ
r.23   ⲙⲛ ⲡσυμπόσιον ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉϥⲣⲟ ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲁⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ
r.24   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉκελεύειν ⲛⲧἐξέδρα ⲧⲏⲣⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉⲥⲣⲟ
r.25   ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲁⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲧϫⲏⲣⲉ ⲧⲏⲣⲥ ⲉⲧⲛⲧⲡⲉ
r.26   ⲛⲧἐξέδρα ϣⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ μόνον ⲡⲉⲧⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲕⲱⲧ
r.27   ⲛⲧⲟϥ ⲉⲧⲧⲱϣ ⲛϥⲉⲛ ⲡⲉϥⲧⲱⲣⲧ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥμέρος
r.28   ⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛκοινόν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϣⲁ ⲡⲣⲁ
r.29   ⲉϥⲛⲁⲕⲱⲧ ⲉϫⲙ ⲡⲏⲓ μόνον ⲉⲩϣⲁⲛⲕⲱⲧ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲟⲩⲁ
r.30   ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲛⲁⲉⲛ ⲡⲉϥⲧⲱⲣⲧ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉϥμέρος πρός
r.31   ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲧⲱⲧ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲙⲡμέρος ⲥⲛⲁⲩ
r.32   ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲙⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛτετράγωνος
r.33   ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲩⲥ ⲡⲉⲓⲉϥⲧⲉ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲫⲓⲗⲟⲑⲉⲟⲥ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲁⲛⲧⲱⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲁⲩⲗⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ
r.34   ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲕⲟⲩⲗⲱⲗ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲣⲟ ⲛⲁⲩⲑⲉⲛⲧⲏⲥ ⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ
r.35   ⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲙⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲛτετράγωνος
r.36   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧϫⲟⲉ ⲛⲧⲙⲏⲧⲉ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛκοινόν ϣⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲧⲧⲁ ⲉⲧⲁⲣⲏⲥ ἀπολογίζειν
r.37   ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲟⲩτριμήσιον ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ϩⲁⲧⲧⲁ ⲉⲧⲁⲛϩⲏⲧ πρός ⲑⲉ
r.38   ⲛⲧⲁⲛπείθειν ⲙⲛⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲟ ⲗⲓⲥⲁⲃⲉⲕ
r.39   ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲃⲱⲕ ⲉⲡⲣⲟ ⲉⲧϫⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲛⲧ ⲡⲉ ⲛⲧἐξέδρα ⲉⲣⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲕⲱⲧ ⲉϫⲛ ⲧϫⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲟ ⲉⲧκελεύειν μόνον ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲃⲱⲕ ⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ ϩⲓϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡⲣⲟ ⲛⲧⲉϫⲏⲣⲉ ϣⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ
r.40   ⲛⲧⲟ δέ ⲗⲓⲥⲁⲃⲉⲕ ⲧϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ ϫⲓⲛ
r.41   ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲟ ⲉⲣⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲛⲛⲉⲓμέρος ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲛⲏⲓ
r.42   ϩⲓⲱⲱⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲟⲩϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲛⲟⲩϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.43   ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱ ⲉχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲉἀποχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ἁπλῶς ⲁⲛⲡⲱⲗⲕ
r.44   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ κατὰ πάντα τρόπον
r.45   πρός ἀπαλλαγή ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲓⲟⲩⲱϣ
r.46   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓπείθειν χωρίς ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲕⲣⲟϥ ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ
r.47   ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ ἀνάγκη ϩⲓ ἀπάτη ϩⲓ ἁρπαγή
r.48   ⲁⲩⲱ συναρπαγή ϩⲓ περιγραφή ⲉⲙⲛ ⲟⲩἀνάγκη ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ἀλλά ϩⲛ ⲧⲉⲛπροαίρησις
r.49   ⲉⲛὁμολογεῖν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉκληρονομία
r.50   ⲙⲡⲉⲛⲏⲓ ⲛⲡⲉⲛμακάριος πρός ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲟⲩⲟⲛϩⲟⲩ
r.51   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ οὐκ ἔξεστι ⲛⲁⲛ ἤ ϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ
r.52   ⲛⲧⲁⲛ ἤ κληρονόμος ⲉⲡⲱⲛ ⲡⲉ ἤ ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως
r.53   ⲙⲡⲉⲛπρόσωπον ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲛⲛⲉϥⲉⲣⲏⲩ ἁπλῶς ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ἤ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϩⲓ ⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ
r.54   ⲉπαραβαίνειν ⲛⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲉϥⲛⲁϯ ϥⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛοὐγκία
r.55   ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲙπρόστιμον γίνεται χρύσου νομίσματα κδ ὄβρυζα ζυγῷ
r.56   Κάστρων Μεμνονίων ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.57   ⲛⲧⲁϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.58   ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲉϫⲛ ⲛⲁⲓ δέ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲛⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς
r.59   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉκράτος ⲁⲩⲱ
r.60   ⲡⲧⲁϫⲣⲟ ⲙⲛ ⲧδιανομή ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲣⲣⲟⲟⲩ
r.61   ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲣϫⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲙ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲙⲧⲣⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.62   ⲛπαράβασις ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ
r.63   ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ οὖν ⲛⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ
r.64   ⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲛἰσότυπος ⲉⲥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.65   ⲉⲥⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν
r.66   ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲁⲩϫⲛⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲛὁμολογεῖν ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲥ
r.67   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ μηνὶ Φαωφι η ἰνδικτίονος τρίτης ἀρχῇ σὺν θεῷ
r.68   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲁⲓⲅⲁⲓⲁ ⲧϣⲛ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲡμοναχός
r.69   ⲉⲣⲉⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲓ συνευδοκεῖν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ
r.70   ⲛⲓⲙ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲙⲛ πρός ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ὡς πρόκειται ⲁⲛⲟⲕ
r.71   ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲛⲗⲁⲍⲁⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ⲙⲁⲩνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲥⲓⲛⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲧⲉⲫⲁⲛⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.72   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ϯⲟ ⲙⲙⲉⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ϩⲙ ⲡⲛⲁ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος
r.73   ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛϫⲉⲙⲏ
r.74   ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.75   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ϯⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.76   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲏⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁⲥ
r.77   ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.78   ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲗⲁⲍⲁⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις
r.79   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ
r.80   ⲙⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.81   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉϣⲁⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ϩⲓⲗⲓⲁⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.82   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲱⲥⲧⲁⲛⲧⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲥⲟⲗⲟⲙⲱⲛ
r.83   ⲡⲁⲡⲟⲩⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡⲓἐλάχιστος
r.84   ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲁϥαἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉϥνοεῖν
r.85   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ
r.86   ⲡⲁⲡⲟⲩⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣ[ⲉ] ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.87   ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲗⲁⲍⲁⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲁϥνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.88   ⲯⲁⲧⲏ ⲡⲓⲥⲣⲁⲏⲗ ϯⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.89   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲛⲁⲛⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ϯ[ⲟ] ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ϩⲁⲧⲣⲉ ϯⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.90   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡμακάριος ⲍⲁⲭⲁⲣⲓⲁⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.91   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲗⲁⲍⲁⲣⲟⲥ
r.92   ⲁⲓσωματίζειν ⲙⲙ[ⲟ]ⲥ ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ
r.93   ϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϫⲱⲛ ϩⲛ ⲧοἰκοδομή ⲛⲧϫⲟⲉ ⲛκοινόν
r.94   ⲛⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲁⲛⲧⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲕⲟⲧⲥ ⲛⲁϥⲡ … ⲟⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ὡς πρόκειται

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
2     the consubstantial Trinity, perfect and life-giving, and the power and the strength and the permanence
3     of our lords (who are) kings, these who rule over the ear[th]
4     entire by the command of God the Almighty,
5     on this day, which is the 8th of the month Phaophi
6     of this year, (the) third indiction, before the most honored
7     and honored Victor the son of the late Thomas, and Ananias
8     the son of the late Abraham, of the headmen of the fortress
9     (of) Djeme, in the nome of the city of Ermanthion (Hermonthis), greeting.
10    I, Abaigaia the daughter of Samuel the deacon and
11    the monk of the mountain of Djeme — my mother is the blessed
12    Tsenoute, with Daniel my husband consenting with me
13    in every matter — of the fortress (of) Djeme, in the nome
14    of the city of Ermanthion: we write to Lisabek the daughter of
15    the blessed Epiphanios — her mother is the blessed
16    Maria — of the fortress (of) Djeme, in this same nome,
17    we setting down this settlement with one another, we giving (the subscription) of the one who shall subscribe for us, and the witnesses who are trustworthy, worthy to be believed, those who shall witness to this settlement, according to our own request, greeting.
18    Since at this time we agreed with one another
19    in singleness of heart to divide the house of our blessed (parents)
20    upon us in this manner, in the way that we shall show forth the part
21    of each one, that we should not (?) but we should distinguish them for you, that is, this: you, Lisabet,
22    the sister of the blessed our mother, possess (?) the three (rooms) which are on the courtyard
23    and the banquet-room, its door opening northward onto the courtyard,
24    and shall command the whole exedra, its door
25    opening northward onto the courtyard, with the whole (upper room) which is in the upper part
26    of the exedra up to the air; only, whoever wishes to build,
27    he being the one assigned, let him raise his courtyard up in his part;
28    let the courtyard become common with one another up to the (?),
29    he who shall build upon the house; only, if they build, let each one
30    raise his courtyard up in his part according
31    to the way we agreed about it with one another (about) the two parts.
32    These are the boundaries of that house, four-square:
33    south, the house of the blessed Sourous (and) his father's brother, the house of Philotheos; north, the house of Antonios (and) Paulos; west,
34    the lane (of) Koulol; and the gate of the Authentes — behold these
35    are the boundaries of that house, being four-square.
36    And as for the wall in the middle, let it become common up to the air with one another, and the (?) which is to the south she shall account
37    for me one trimesion of gold for the (?) which is in (it), according to the way
38    we agreed with one another about it. And you, Lisabek,
39    when you go to the door of the chamber which is in the upper (part) of the exedra, if you wish to build upon the chamber, you being the one assigned; only, when you go into the courtyard inside the door of the chamber, up to the air.
40    And you, Lisabek, the daughter of the blessed Epiphanios, from
41    now (it is) yours, that you shall command all these parts for yourself
42    and your children and your children's children
43    and all who come after you; afterwards, to bestow them (as gifts), to give them away as gifts, to give them out, simply, we are quit
44    (of any claim) with one another in every manner,
45    toward every release in every matter; willing
46    and persuaded, without any deceit or fear or
47    extortion or compulsion or fraud or robbery
48    and circumvention or fraudulent circumvention, there being no single compulsion
49    set down upon us, but with our free choice,
50    we acknowledging with one another concerning the inheritance
51    of our house of our blessed (parents), according to the way we have shown them
52    forth from it. It is not permitted to us, or to (any) daughter
53    of ours, or to (any) heir who is ours, or to any man at all
54    of our person, to bring suit against one another; simply, the one who shall dare, or the one who shall undertake
55    to transgress this settlement, shall give four ounces
56    of gold (as) a fine, that is twenty-four gold solidi, pure, by the standard
57    of the fortress of the Memnonia; and after these things, that I came in
58    (and) confirmed the validity of this settlement and every matter
59    that is written in it. And upon all these things we swear by the holy Trinity,
60    consubstantial, and the power and
61    the strength and the dispensation of our lords (who are) kings,
62    these who are established by God, not to let any
63    transgression come to be in it, in this settlement and every matter
64    that is written in it. For your security, then, with one another, we have set down
65    this settlement, equal-typed (identical copies), and it shall be firm,
66    being valid in every place where they shall declare
67    it; they questioned us, we acknowledging; we issued it
68    forth in the month Phaophi 8, indiction the third, at the beginning, with God.
69    I, Abaigaia the daughter of Samuel the monk,
70    with Daniel my husband consenting with me in every matter,
71    consent to this settlement and the creed and toward (it?) and every matter that is written in it as is set forth above. I,
72    Iohannes (son) of Lazaros, wrote for them, since they do not (know how) to write. I, Pesinthios the son of Stephanos, give witness.
73    I, Iohannes the son of the late Victor, give witness. I, the son (… ) by the spirit of God, the least
74    presbyter and superior of the holy church of Djeme,
75    give witness.
76    I, Petros the son of Andreas, give witness.
77    I, Athanasios the son of the late Heremias,
78    give witness to this settlement. I, Andreas the son
79    of the late Lazaros, wrote for him, and I give witness to this settlement.
80    I, Komes the least presbyter of the holy Apa Patermouthios
81    of the fortress (of) Djeme, give witness.
82    I, Peshate the son of the late Hilias, give witness.
83    I, Konstantios the son of the late Solomon
84    of Apoulashane, give witness. Komes the least
85    presbyter — he asked me, (and) I wrote for him because he does not (know how to write).
86    I, Petros the son of the late Komes
87    of Apoulashane, give witness. I, Andreas the son
88    of the late Lazaros, wrote for him because he does not (know how) to write.
89    Psate (son of?) Israel, give witness.
90    I, Ananias the son of the late Abraham, give witness. I, Komes the son of the late Hatre, give witness.
91    I, Epiphanios the son of (the) blessed Zacharias, give witness.
92    I, Iohannes the son of the late Lazaros,
93    drew it up in writing with my hand,
94    that whoever shall come in upon us in the building of the common upper-storey of the house of Antone, which we built for him … with one another as is set forth above.
