[META]
id:       P.KRU 82
label:    P.KRU 82
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     771 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (771 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de donation d’un enfant à un monastère. Proestôs. Protocole arabe. Grec
tm:       85983
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;82
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐν ὀνόματι τοῦ πατρὸς κ[αὶ] …
r.2    ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲛ ⲃⲁⲥ[ⲓⲗⲓⲟⲥ] …
r.3    ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧ …
r.4    ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲉμάρτυρος …
r.5    ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲓⲥ[ⲏ]ⲧ ⲛ …
r.6    ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲕⲱ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ [ⲛ]ⲁⲧⲕⲓⲙ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲧϣⲱⲗϥ [ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛ]νόμος ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲉⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓ[ⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ]
r.7    ⲛⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲉπροεστώς …
r.8    ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲛⲁπροιστάναι ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ὅπερ μὴ [γένοιτο]
r.9    ⲉⲧπροστασία ⲛⲡⲉⲓτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ χαίρειν ϫⲉ ἐπειδή
r.10   ⲟⲩⲛⲧⲁⲛ ⲟⲩⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲁⲛϫⲡⲟϥ ⲁⲛⲉⲣⲏⲧ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.11   ϫⲓⲛ ⲛⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲛϫⲡⲟϥ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲧⲛὁμολογεῖν ⲁⲛⲟⲛ
r.12   ⲛⲉⲧϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲛⲧⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲡⲉⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ
r.13   ⲉⲧⲉ ⲙⲏⲛⲁ ⲡⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲓτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛἀγάπη ⲛⲧⲉⲛψυχή
r.14   ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϭⲁⲩⲟⲛ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲓτόπος ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ὡς ϫⲉ ⲟⲩϭⲁⲩⲟⲛ ⲛϣⲱⲡ ϩⲁ ϩⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲡⲉ ⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲛπείθειν μᾶλλον
r.15   δέ ⲉⲛⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲣⲉϥⲧⲁⲛϩⲟ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛὁμοούσιος
r.16   ⲙⲛ ⲧσωτηρία ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲉϫⲱⲛ ⲉⲛδωρίζειν
r.17   ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲓτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲡⲉⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛἀγάπη
r.18   ⲛⲧⲉⲛψυχῄ ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲁ ⲧὑποταγή ⲛⲡⲉⲓμοναστήριον
r.19   ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ
r.20   ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ εἴτε ⲁⲛⲟⲛ εἴτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ εἴτε ⲥⲟⲛ εἴτε
r.21   κληρονόμος εἴτε ϫⲱϩ εἴτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ ⲛⲡⲛⲣ ϩⲱⲃ γάρ
r.22   ⲉⲙϣϣⲉ ἀλλά ⲉⲛⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲛνόμος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧϩⲱⲛ
r.23   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲧἐπιτρέπειν ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲣ ⲡⲉⲧϥⲟⲩⲁϣϥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲱϥ ⲡⲉ
r.24   ϩⲛ ⲥⲙⲟⲧ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲟⲩⲁϣϥ καί μάλιστα ϩⲉⲛϩⲃⲏⲩⲉ ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ
r.25   ⲉⲩπρέπειν ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲧⲁϫⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν ⲉⲁⲛπροσενεγκεῖν ⲛⲡⲉⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.26   ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁπρεσβεύειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ ϩⲓϫⲙ ⲡⲉθυσιαστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.27   ⲉⲧⲙⲉϩ ⲛⲉⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲛⲛⲁϩⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁ ϩⲙⲡⲕⲉαἰών ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱϣ
r.28   δέ πότε καιρῷ ἢ χρόνῳ ⲉⲧⲁⲩⲟ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϣⲁϫⲉ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.29   ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν ⲛⲧⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϣ
r.30   ⲉπαραβαίνειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.31   ⲛⲣⲉϥⲧⲁⲛϩⲟ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲥⲉϩⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲩκρίνειν
r.32   ⲙⲙⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲩἐξετάζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲓ ⲡβῆμα ⲉⲧϩⲁ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.33   ⲡδημιουργός ϩⲁ ⲧπαράβασις ⲙⲛ ⲧσυμφωνία ⲛⲧⲁϥⲁⲁⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ
r.34   ⲧⲛⲧⲁⲣⲕⲟ ⲙψυχή ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲓ ἐξουσία ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲛⲁϫⲱⲛϥ ⲉⲡⲉⲓχαρτίον
r.35   ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲩὁρίζειν ⲛⲟⲩⲛⲟϭ ⲛἐπιτιμία ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲁϥτολμᾶν
r.36   ὅλως ⲉⲧⲁⲩⲟ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϣⲁϫⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙὀφείλειν ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ
r.37   οὖν ⲛⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲉπροεστώς
r.38   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲓἔγγραφον ⲛδωρεαστικόν ⲛἀγάπη
r.39   ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϥⲟⲣϫ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲛⲱⲣⲕ ϩⲓⲱϥ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡπαντοκράτωρ
r.40   ⲙⲛ ⲧσωτηρία ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲉϫⲱⲛ κατά καιρός ⲉⲧⲣⲛⲣⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.41   ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲛⲟⲩⲛ
r.42   ⲛⲧⲛὁμολογεῖν
r.43   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲛ ⲃⲁⲥⲓⲗⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉⲓδωρεαστικόν
r.44   πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲑⲉⲟⲇⲱⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲏⲛⲁ ϩⲛ ⲁⲡⲉ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙπρεσβύτεροςⲁϥⲁⲓⲧⲉⲓ
r.45   ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.46   ⲃⲁⲥⲓⲗⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙπρεσβύτερος ϩⲛ ⲁⲡⲉ ϯⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.47   ⲑⲉⲟⲇⲱⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲁⲡⲁⲥ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.48   ⲥⲉⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ϩⲛ ⲁⲡⲉ ⲡἐλάχιστος ⲛδιάκονος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.49   Ἐλλω υἱὸς τοῦ μακαρίου Πανεα Ῥωμαίου μαρτυρῶ
r.50   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲭⲁⲏⲗ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν πρός ⲑⲏ ⲉⲧⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.51   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲯⲁⲧⲏ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲇ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν
r.52   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲉⲗⲗⲱ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲡⲉχάρτης
r.53   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲯⲙⲱ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲕⲱⲙⲉⲥ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉχάρτης

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the Father an[d] …
2     We, Senouthios son of Bas[ilios] …
3     the fort of Djeme, these who …
4     on their behalf, with other wit[nesses] …
5     who shall testify on behalf of this dee[d] …
6     this one which we lay up, [im]movable to it and unshakeable [by the] laws, forever; we write to the holy place of the saint Apa Phoi[bammon]
7     of the mountain of Djeme, through you, Apa Souros the superior …
8     you, with everyone who shall be superior after you — which may [not happen] —
9     to the headship of this holy place forever; greeting. Namely: since
10    we have a small child of a mother, whom we begot; we vowed him to God.
11    From today, on which we begot him, now we agree, we
12    who wrote before, that we give to you this small child of this kind,
13    namely Mena, into this holy place, as a gift of our soul,
14    that he may become a servant to this place forever — that is, a servant bought for money — we willing it and persuaded, rather
15    swearing by the holy Trinity, the life-giver and consubstantial,
16    and by the salvation of our sovereigns who rule over us — that we donate
17    into this holy place this small child of this kind, as a gift
18    of our soul, that he may become subject to this monastery
19    of this kind; namely that no man shall be able to proceed against you on behalf of this small
20    child of this kind, whether we, whether son, whether brother, whether
21    heir, whether one of one, whether one of one's one; for we do not do a matter
22    that is unfitting, but we follow the force of the holy laws, these which decree
23    and which permit every man to do what he wishes with that which is his own,
24    in every manner that he wishes, and especially deeds of this kind
25    that are pleasing to God and to men; and through this we have confirmed this deed of gift, having offered this small child of this kind to God,
26    so that you may intercede on our behalf at the holy altar
27    full of glory, so that we may attain rest in the other age. But whoever shall wish
28    at any time or season to bring any word, opposing this
29    deed of gift of this kind, which we have set down — he wishing
30    to transgress it — he shall become a stranger to the holy Trinity,
31    the life-giver and consubstantial, and they shall come to be judged
32    and examined at the dread judgment-seat of God
33    the Creator, on account of the transgression and the agreement which he made; and
34    we adjure every soul and every authority that shall lift up this charter
35    to decree a great penalty upon that person, because he dared
36    at all to bring any word — and afterward let them owe nothing — it being secured,
37    then, for the holy place, through you, Apa Souros the superior
38    and those who come after you. We drew up this written deed of gift of love
39    for you, valid; and we swear thereon by God the Almighty
40    and by the salvation of our sovereigns who rule over us, according to the season, that we watch over
41    it for you in every place where they shall produce it, and let them not question
42    us, that we agree.
43    I, Senouthios son of Basilios, who wrote before, consent to this deed of gift
44    according to the way it is written. Theodoros (son of) Mena, in Ape, this least presbyter, made the request.
45    I wrote on his behalf, and I give witness.
46    Basilios son of Johannes, this least presbyter, in Ape, give witness.
47    Theodoros Papas, this least presbyter of the holy church, give witness.
48    Sergios Biktor, in Ape, the least deacon of the holy church, give witness.
49    Ello son of the blessed Panea, a Roman, I bear witness.
50    I, comes son of the blessed Chael, consent to the deed of gift according to the way it is written.
51    I, Psate son of the blessed David, consent to the deed of gift.
52    I, Enoch son of the blessed Ello, consent to the charter.
53    I, Psmo son of the comes, consent to the charter.
