[META]
id:       P.KRU 42
label:    P.KRU 42
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     725 CE – 726 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (725 CE – 726 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Arrangement légal. Affaire judiciaire. Contrat de partage d’une héritage. Maison. Lashanés. Apé. Gardiens. Émir. Pagarque. Grands hommes. Maçon. Higoumène
tm:       85943
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;42
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    [ⲙⲛ] ϩⲉⲛⲙⲛⲧ[ⲣⲉ] ⲛἀξιόπιστος … [ⲉⲓⲥ]ϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲡⲉⲥⲁⲧⲉ
r.2    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡⲓκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲉⲓⲧⲓ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲧὑπογραφή ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁὑπογράφειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲛμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲛϣⲟⲩπιστεύειν ⲛⲁⲩ χαίρειν ἐπειδή ϩⲛ ⲧⲓⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ ἔννατος
r.3    ἰνδικτιών ἀρχή ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲉⲗⲏ ⲙⲙⲏⲛⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ
r.4    ⲭⲙⲛⲧⲥⲏⲛⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲑⲉⲟⲇⲟⲣⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲛⲁⲧⲟⲗⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ ⲛⲯⲏⲥ ⲛⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ
r.5    ⲉⲣⲉⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲛⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲟ ⲛⲛⲁⲡⲉ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲣⲓⲧ ⲉⲣⲉⲡἐνδοξότατος ⲛϫ[ⲟ]ⲉⲓⲥ ⲡⲁϩⲁⲗ ⲡἀμιρᾶ ἄρχειν ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲛκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲁⲛⲉⲛ ⲡⲉⲛϩⲱⲃ
r.6    ⲛⲁϩⲣⲙ ⲡἐνδοξότατος ⲛἀμιρᾶ ⲁⲃⲉⲣϩⲟⲙⲁⲣ πρόσωπον ⲛⲁⲙⲓⲟⲡ ⲡἀμιρᾶ ⲁϥκελεύειν ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓ ⲡⲥⲟⲛ ⲛⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲛⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡⲁⲡⲉ ⲛϩⲟⲣⲓⲧ ⲁϥⲧⲛⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲛⲟϭ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲱϩⲉ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲙⲛ
r.7    ⲑⲱⲙⲁ ⲛⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲙⲛ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲛⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲓⲥⲩⲛⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲯⲩⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲕⲱⲧ ⲁⲩⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲃⲣⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲕⲟⲧϥ ⲁⲩⲁⲁϥ ⲛτιμή ϩⲁ ⲧοἰκοδομή ⲁⲩϫⲓ ⲧⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉϥτιμή πρός ⲧκέλευσις ⲛⲡἀμιρᾶ ὁμοίως ⲟⲛ
r.8    ⲁⲩμεσάζειν ⲙⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϩⲛ ⲧμέρις ⲧⲁ ϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲩⲛⲟⲩϫ κλῆρος ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓⲃⲁⲗ ⲛⲛⲟϭ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓ ⲛⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡⲥⲟⲛ ⲛⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ
r.9    ⲛⲉⲛⲱⲭ ⲡⲁⲡⲉ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲣⲓⲧ ⲁⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲙⲡⲉϥκλῆρος πρός ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲏⲛⲧϥ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ δέ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲁⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.10   ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲉⲕⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲡϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ
r.11   ⲛσυμπόσιον ὁμοίως ⲛⲅκελεύειν ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲛϫⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧἐξέδρα ϣⲁⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ
r.12   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲕⲁⲗⲁϣⲓⲧ ⲧⲱⲙ ὁμοίως ⲛⲅϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲉⲡⲓⲧⲛ ϩⲓⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲡⲣⲟ ⲛⲧἐξέδρα ⲧⲁ ⲡⲓⲧⲛⲉ ⲛⲅⲟⲩⲱⲣϩ ⲡⲉⲕϩⲟ ⲁⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲛⲅϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲑⲉⲃⲓⲧ
r.13   ⲙⲛ ⲧⲃⲁⲓⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲣⲟ ⲛⲃⲁⲗ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲧⲱⲣⲧ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛκοινόν ϣⲁⲁ ⲣⲁ ⲧⲏⲩ ⲉⲓⲥ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲡⲉⲕμέρος ⲛⲧⲁⲕⲧⲁϩⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲁⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲓⲱⲧ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲛⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲃⲣⲣⲉ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲡⲉⲛⲟⲛϩ ⲡ[ⲉ] ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲟⲣ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲉ
r.14   ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲡⲟⲛϩ ⲛⲃⲓⲕⲧⲟⲣ ⲑⲱⲙⲁ ⲡⲉⲓⲉϥⲧⲉ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲇⲏⲙⲟⲥⲓⲟⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲣⲟ ⲛἀρχαῖος ⲉϣⲁⲣⲉⲡⲣⲟ ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ δέ ⲉⲣⲟⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲁⲧⲉ ⲉⲕⲛⲁκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲉⲛⲉϩ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ϣⲁ
r.15   ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲉⲛϩ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛⲉ οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ οὔτε
r.16   ϣⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ οὔτε ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ὅλως
r.17   ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁπρόσωπον ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ἐνάγειν ⲛἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϩⲛ δικαστήριον ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲛδικαστήριον ϩⲛ πόλις ϩⲛ ⲧⲟϣ ϩⲛ πραιτώριον
r.18   ἤ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛτύπος ⲉϥϩⲁ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ ⲉϥⲟⲩⲱϣⲧ ⲛⲁϥ ἁπαξαπλῶς ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲟⲩⲁ
r.19   ⲛϩⲏⲧⲛ τολμᾶν κἄν ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ἤ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲕⲉχρόνος ϣⲟⲣⲡ μέν ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲧⲓ ϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲡϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛτύπος ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ
r.20   ⲉⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥⲧⲓ ⲉⲡλόγος ⲛϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛοὐγκία ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲙπρόστιμον ϩⲛ ⲧⲉϥὑπόστασις ⲙⲙⲓⲛⲉ
r.21   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲧϭⲓϫ ⲛⲛἄρχων ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲧκαταβολή ⲙπρόστιμον
r.22   ⲛⲥⲉπαρασκευάζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲧⲁϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ
r.23   ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲉⲓⲱⲣⲕ ⲙⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡπαντοκράτωρ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲉϫⲱⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲙ
r.24   ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲙπλανᾶν ⲉⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓϫⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.25   ⲥⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ
r.26   ⲧⲁὁμολογεῖν ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ὡς πρόκειται
r.27   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲟⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲧⲓϭⲟⲙ ⲉⲧⲓπρᾶσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.28   ⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ
r.29   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲑⲟⲙⲁ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲙⲁⲣⲕ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.30   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.31   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲥⲉⲩⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲑⲱⲙⲁ
r.32   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲙⲁⲣⲕ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲙⲁϥνοεῖν ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓ[ⲟ] ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.33   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲓⲥⲣⲁⲏⲗ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁⲩⲗⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.34   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲫⲁⲩⲥⲧⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ ϯⲱ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.35   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛⲱϩⲉ ⲡⲉπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲥⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.36   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲥⲁⲕ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ μακάριος ⲕⲟⲥⲧⲁⲛⲧⲓⲛⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.37   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲱⲏⲥⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ
r.38   ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲓδιάλυσις ⲙⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.39   ϩⲁⲣⲟⲕ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ

[TRANSLATION]
1     [together with] trustworthy witnes[ses] … [I] write, I, Pesate
2     the son of the blessed Ioseph, my brother, the man of this fortress of Djeme; I give, and afterwards the subscription of the one who shall subscribe on my behalf, together with the witnesses who are trustworthy, worthy to be believed; greeting. Since in this year which is the ninth
3     indiction, the beginning that exists now, through Samuele (son of) Mena and Georgios
4     Chmntseny and Theodoros (son of) Anatole and Abraam (son of) Pses, the village-headmen,
5     while Samuel (son of) Enoch was over the heads of Hourit, while the most glorious lord Pahal the amir ruled over our fortress of Djeme, we brought our affair
6     before the most glorious amir Aberhomar, the representative of Amiop the amir; he commanded Apa Kyri the brother of Samuel (son of) Enoch, the head of Horit; he sent great men, that is, Nohe the abbot and
7     Thoma (son of) Biktor and Haron (son of) Andreas and Pisynthios (son of) Psyros the builder; they went into the new house which they had built; they reckoned it for the price for the construction; they took the half of its price according to the command of the amir, likewise also
8     they divided that house in the inner part; and they cast a lot up and down between the great men and Apa Kyri (son of) Enoch the brother of Samuel
9     (son of) Enoch, the head of Hourit; each one took hold of his portion, according to what God allotted to you up over it. And you, my brother Pesate, the son
10    of the blessed Ioseph, the man of the fortress of Djeme, you shall command the three
11    drinking-rooms (symposia); likewise command the upper part of the colonnade as far as the wind(-side?),
12    and (that) the staircase be shut; likewise toil below outside the door of the colonnade on the lower (side) and lay open your face northward; toil at the cellar
13    and the water-jar and the door of the side and the (stair-)flight up; let it be a common (property) as far as the wind(-side); behold, this is your portion which you obtained, you, my brother Pesate, the son of my blessed father Ioseph, the man of the fortress of Djeme; these are the boundaries of the new house: on the north, our living (one), the west, Biktor (son of) Ioseph;
14    the south, the living one of Biktor (son of) Thoma; on the east, the public street; and the ancient door, since the door opens; from now then to you, you, my brother Pesate, you shall command them forever and ever, so that I shall not be able to bring suit against you as far as
15    ever and ever, neither I nor brother nor sister nor child nor
16    near-kin (?) one nor near-kin (?) two nor near-kin nor near-kin of near-kin nor any man at all,
17    acting in my behalf, that I shall not be able to bring suit and to (be) suing with one another in a tribunal or outside a tribunal, in a city or in a district or in a praetorium,
18    or (by) any decree that holds glory, that is reverenced; absolutely, if one
19    of us should dare, whether now or after some time, in the first place, that person shall gain nothing, but rather the first decree shall become valid, he being a stranger
20    to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit; and afterwards he shall pay to the account three ounces of gold as a penalty, from his own substance,
21    into the hand of the honourable rulers; and after the payment of the penalty
22    they shall make me ready (to have) the power of this settlement and every matter
23    that is written about it; and afterwards I swear by the name of God the Almighty and by the salvation of our lords who rule over us through
24    God, not to evade the things I have said and every matter that is written about it, firm
25    and valid in every place where it shall be produced, and they shall question me,
26    and I shall acknowledge the settlement and the matter written about it, as is aforesaid.
27    I, Mouses (Moses) the son of Ioseph, I consent to the sale and every matter
28    written about it.
29    I, Thoma (son of) the blessed Mark, I bear witness.
30    I, Phoibamon the son of the blessed Georgios, I bear witness.
31    I, Petros the son of the blessed Seuheros, I bear witness; Thoma
32    the son of the blessed Mark: I have written on his behalf, since he does not know (how), and I bear witness.
33    I, Israel the son of Paulos, I bear witness.
34    I, Phaustos the son of the blessed Andreas, I bear witness.
35    I, Nohe the presbyter and the abbot of the holy church of Djeme, I bear witness, according to the request of those who established it.
36    I, Isak the son of the blessed Kostantine, I bear witness.
37    I, Mohyses (Moses) the son of the blessed Ioseph, he who first wrote above,
38    I consent to the settlement and every matter written about it; whoever I am, I have written
39    on your behalf, and I bear witness.
