[META]
id:       P.KRU 37
label:    P.KRU 37
name:     Contract — Theben
genre:    contracts
date:     724 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (724 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Teilung (Erbe) — griechische Unterschrift
tm:       23192
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;37
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ⲉⲓⲣϩⲟⲩⲟ]
r.2    δέ ⲧⲁϫⲣⲟ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲙ[ⲛⲧⲣⲉ] [ⲛ]ἀξιόπιστος
r.3    ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ πρός ⲧⲁαἴτησις ⲧⲱⲓ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ[ⲉ] ⲙⲙ[ⲟⲓ] [ⲙ]ⲛ [ⲧⲁ]ἐπιθυμία ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲗⲓⲥⲁ[ⲃⲉⲧ]
r.4    ⲧϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ϩⲱⲱⲥ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲉⲓⲟⲥ
r.5    ⲧⲉⲥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲧⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲉⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.6    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲑⲉⲟⲇⲱⲣⲟⲥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲓκάστρον ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ
r.7    χαίρειν ἐπειδή ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲡⲉⲛⲕⲟⲧⲕ ⲙⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲛ ϯ[ⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ] [ⲧⲁⲓ]
r.8    ἕβδομος ἀρχή ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲁⲓἐνάγειν
r.9    ⲁⲓπροσελθεῖν ⲉⲣⲟ ⲛⲛτιμιώτατος ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ
r.10   ⲙⲛ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲛⲗⲁϣⲛⲏⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡἀθλοφόρος ⲙμάρτυρος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲉⲓκάστρον ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲉⲣⲉⲡθεοφιλέστατος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡἀρχιπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡμειζότερος …
r.11   ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲡⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲙ[ⲙⲁⲁⲩ] … ⲥπληροφορεῖν
r.12   ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲧⲉπληροφορεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ
r.13   ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲡⲱⲗϭ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ϩⲱⲃ
r.14   ⲉϥδιαφέρεσθαι ⲉⲧⲉⲓκληρονομία ⲧⲏⲣⲥ
r.15   ⲙⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ ϩⲛ ⲛⲟⲩⲃ ϩⲛ
r.16   ϩⲁⲁⲧ ϩⲛ ϩⲟⲓⲧⲉ ϩⲛ ⲃⲁⲣⲱⲧ ϩⲛ εἶδος ⲛⲓⲙ
r.17   ϩⲁ ⲥⲭⲁⲁⲧ ϩⲁ ϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ ϩⲁ ⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲙ
r.18   ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛπληροφορεῖν
r.19   ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ϩⲁ ϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲛ
r.20   ⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ὀνομάζειν ⲙⲡⲉϥⲣⲁⲛ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲉⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.21   ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.22   ⲉⲧⲉⲓκληρονομία ⲧⲏⲣⲥ ⲙⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ
r.23   ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲙμακάριος ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲉⲓⲟⲥ
r.24   ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲩκληρονομία ⲧⲏⲣⲥ οὐδέ ⲉϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲟⲛⲧⲏⲓ
r.25   ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲙπρόφασις ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ οὐδέ ⲉϫⲡⲟ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.26   ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ κατά ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲙⲟⲧ ἤ πρόφασις οὔτε
r.27   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲥⲱⲛⲉ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ
r.28   οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ οὔτε ϩⲁ ⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ οὔτε
r.29   ϩⲁ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ οὔτε ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲗⲓⲥⲁⲃⲉⲧ
r.30   οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲱⲧⲛ ⲡⲉ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε
r.31   ⲥⲱⲛⲏ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ οὔτε
r.32   ϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϣⲙⲙⲟ οὔτε
r.33   ⲣⲙ ⲛⲏⲓ οὔτε ϭⲉⲟⲩⲁ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ κατά ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.34   ⲛⲥⲙⲟⲧ ἤ πρόφασις οὐδέ ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ
r.35   ἐνάγειν ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛδικαστήριον
r.36   ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲛδικαστήριον οὔτε ϩⲙ πόλις
r.37   οὔτε ϩⲛ ⲧⲟϣ οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛκίνησις ⲛⲧⲉπόλις
r.38   ἤ ⲡⲉπραιτώριον ἤ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛτύπος ⲉϥϩⲁ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ
r.39   ⲉⲩⲟⲩⲱϣⲧ ⲛⲁϥ ἤ ⲟⲩἐντολεύς ἤ ϩⲓⲧⲛ
r.40   ⲧⲛⲟϭ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧδιάταξις ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ἤ ⲛⲟϭ ⲛτάξις
r.41   ⲉⲥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲥχoρεύειν ἅπαξ ἁπλῶς ⲉⲧⲃⲉ
r.42   ϫⲉ ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲡⲱⲗϭ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲓκληρονομία ⲧⲏⲣⲥ ⲙⲡⲁμακάριος ⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ
r.43   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲙπάππος ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ δηλοῦν
r.44   ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲉⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ϩⲁ ⲛⲟⲩⲃ
r.45   ϩⲁ ϩⲁⲁⲧ ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲁ ⲥⲭⲁⲁⲧ ϩⲓ ϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ ϩⲓ ⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ
r.46   ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲙ ϩⲓ ⲛⲟⲩϩⲣ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ
r.47   ⲉⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲓϣⲁⲛτολμᾶν δέ ποτέ καιρῷ ἤ χρόνος ἤ ⲟⲩⲁ
r.48   ϩⲛ ⲛⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲁκληρονόμος ⲙⲛ ⲛⲁϫⲱϩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲁϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲙⲙⲟ ϩⲓ ⲣⲙ ⲛⲏⲓ
r.49   ἐνάγειν ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉϥϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.50   ϩⲛ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ὀνομάζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ οὐδέ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.51   ⲛεἶδος ϫⲓⲛ ⲟⲩεἶδος ⲉϥⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ ϣⲁ ⲡⲉⲧϭⲟϫⲃ
r.52   ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩεἶδος ⲛⲃⲗϫⲉ ⲛἐλάχιστος ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩνοῦμμος ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ϣⲟⲣⲡ μέν ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϯϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲡϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛτύπος μέν ⲉϥⲛⲁ[ϣⲱⲡⲉ]
r.53   ⲉϥⲟⲩⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲧⲟⲩϣⲙϣⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥϯ ⲡλόγος ⲙⲡπρόστιμον ⲛⲙⲁ[ⲃ]ⲥⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲛὄβρυζος ⲛⲥⲉἀπαιτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲉϥὑπόστασις ⲙⲙⲓⲛ
r.54   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲧϭⲓϫ ⲉⲛⲛἄρχων ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲓⲏⲩ
r.55   εἶθ' οὕτως ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲧκαταβολή ⲙⲡⲉπρόστιμον ⲛⲥⲉπαρασκευάζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ
r.56   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥⲥⲱⲛⲧ ⲉⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲙⲡⲉⲓἔγγραφον ⲛⲛἀμεριμνία
r.57   ⲛδιάλυσις ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲡⲱⲗϭ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.58   ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲓκληρονομία ⲛⲛⲁⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ
r.59   ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲉⲡⲓⲫⲁⲛⲉⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.60   ϩⲁ ⲥⲭⲁⲁⲧ ϩⲓ ϣⲉⲗⲉⲉⲧ ϩⲓ ⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲙ ϩⲓ ⲛⲟⲩ[ϩⲣ]
r.61   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ κατὰ πάντα τρόπον ⲁⲩⲱ πρὸς πᾶσαν
r.62   τελείαν ἀπαλλαγήν ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲛδιαλύειν
r.63   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϩⲛ ⲟⲩϫⲱⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϫⲛ ⲛ[ⲁⲓ]
r.64   δέ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲓⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲙⲛ ⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩⲉ
r.65   ⲉⲧⲣⲁϩⲁⲣⲉϩ ⲉⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲡⲉⲓἔγγραφον ⲙμερισμός
r.66   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲟ ⲛδιάλυσις ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ
r.67   ⲛⲏⲧⲛ χωρίς ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲕⲣⲟϥ ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ ἀπάτη ϩⲓ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛσυναρπαγή ⲁⲩⲱ
r.68   περιγραφή ϥⲟⲣϫ ϥⲟ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.69   ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲁⲩⲟϣ[ϥ]
r.70   ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲥⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν ⲛⲟⲩὑπογραφεύς ⲁϥὑπογράφειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ [ⲁⲓ]αἰτεῖν ⲛϩⲉⲛ[ⲕⲉ]ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲁⲩμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ
r.71   ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓ ⲡνομικός ⲉⲥϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.72   πρός ⲧἀκολουθία [ⲧⲏ]ⲣⲥ δῆλον δέ ὅτι
r.73   ⲧⲓⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ δέ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲟⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲓκεφάλαιον
r.74   ϫⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲙⲡὁλοκόττινος ⲙⲛ ⲡτριμήσιον …
r.75   ὁρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲓ ⲡϩⲣⲣ …
r.76   ⲙ … ⲓⲉⲟⲩⲥ ⲙⲡὅρος … ⲛⲛⲁⲥⲛⲏ[ⲩ]
r.77   ⲧⲉ … ϩⲏ … ⲁⲓπροσελθεῖν ⲉⲣⲟ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲁⲛⲁⲇⲓⲇⲟⲩ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲙⲡὁλοκόττινος ⲙⲛ τριμήσιον …
r.78   ⲓⲧ … ⲁ … ⲣⲟⲥⲡⲉ διὰ χ[ει]ρὸς εἰς χεῖρα
r.79   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲍⲉⲃⲉⲇⲉⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲉⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁ[ⲛⲟ]ⲕ
r.80   ⲗ[ⲟ]ⲗⲉ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος ⲛδιάκονος [ⲛ]ⲧκαθολικός ἐκκλησία ⲉⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲁ[ⲓⲥ]ϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ
r.81   ⲙⲉϥνοεῖν ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.82   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ϯⲱ
r.83   ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲉⲓἔγγραφον ⲛδιάλυσις ⲁⲛⲟⲕ
r.84   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲩⲣⲟⲥ ⲁϥαἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓ[ⲥϩⲁⲓ] [ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ]
r.85   ϫⲉ ⲛⲉϥνοεῖν ⲁⲛ ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.86   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛϩⲩⲗⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲛⲍⲁⲭⲁⲣⲓⲁⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος
r.87   ⲗⲟⲩⲗⲁ ⲡⲣⲙ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥ[ϣ]ⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲁⲓἔγγραφον ⲛδιάλυσις ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛἀμεριμνία ⲙⲛ
r.88   ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ πρόστιμον
r.89   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲧ
r.90   ⲁϥαἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲁϥ ϫⲉ ϥνοεῖν [ⲁⲛ]
r.91   ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲡⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲧⲉⲫⲁⲛⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲙⲱⲩⲥⲏⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙ[ⲛⲧⲣⲉ] ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲇⲁ[ⲩⲉⲓⲧ]
r.92   ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉπρόσωπον ⲛ[ⲧ]ⲁϭⲓϫ ϫⲉ ⲥⲉνοεῖν ⲁⲛ
r.93   [ⲁⲛⲟⲕ] … ⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲃⲁⲥⲓⲗⲓⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.94   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲕⲱⲥⲧⲁⲛⲧⲓⲛⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.95   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲓἐλάχιστος ⲛπρεσβύτερος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧ[ⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ] …
r.96   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ψάτη Πισραηλίου ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     … [but rather]
2     it is made firm through trustworthy wit[nesses,]
3     these who shall bear witness to it, for me, according to my own request, of my own self [an]d [my] desire; I write to my beloved mother Elisa[bet]
4     daughter likewise of the blessed Epiphaneios,
5     her mother being Maria, and Abraham her husband,
6     son of Theodoros, in this same fortress,
7     greeting: Since, after the sleep (death) of my blessed father Loula, and in this [year, the]
8     seventh, present authority (indiction), now I brought suit,
9     I approached you, the most honored Athanasios
10    and Victor, the brethren within (the monastery) of the prize-winning martyr Abba Kyriakos of this same fortress, the most God-loving Apa Victor the archpresbyter and the elder being …
11    with them on that day … he assures
12    me by my oath into Saint Kyriakos; after assuring me by my oath,
13    I received, and I parted from you, concerning a matter
14    pertaining to this whole inheritance
15    of my blessed father Loula, in gold, in
16    silver, in clothing, in barot (?), in any kind,
17    of grain (?), of vintage (?), of a year's produce,
18    of any matter coming in to me and to my blessed father; and you assured
19    me by my oath concerning a matter coming in with
20    my blessed father, which I revealed first by his name above; now I shall not be able to come out
21    against you ever concerning any matter coming in
22    to this whole inheritance of my blessed father
23    Loula and of my blessed parents Epiphaneios
24    and Maria, concerning any matter coming in to their whole inheritance, nor to say that I have
25    any pretext with you, nor to bring suit
26    against you according to any manner or pretext, neither
27    I nor brother nor sister nor son of one
28    nor son of two nor on (the side of) my father nor
29    on (the side of) my mother, nor against you, you Elisabet,
30    nor child belonging to you, nor brother nor
31    sister nor son of one nor son of two nor
32    relative nor relative of relative nor stranger nor
33    man of house nor another against you according to any
34    manner or pretext; nor shall I be able to
35    bring suit against you within a court
36    or outside a court, neither in a city
37    nor in a district, nor any motion of a city
38    or the praetorium or any kind of place that is in glory,
39    worshipping it, or a representative or through
40    the great and holy ordinance, or a great rank
41    having power and exercising power, once and simply, because
42    I received and I parted from you concerning this whole inheritance of my blessed father Loula
43    and my grandfather-parents, which I revealed first,
44    them above: Epiphaneios and Maria, concerning gold,
45    concerning silver and concerning property, with vintage, with a year's
46    produce, with seed (?), out of any matter,
47    having first brought suit against you concerning them. If I dare ever at a time or season or anyone
48    among my children and my heirs and my relatives and my relatives of relatives and a stranger or a man of (my) house
49    to bring suit against you concerning any matter coming in
50    among those which I revealed first, nor concerning any
51    kind, from a kind that is honored down to the least,
52    with a kind of trifle, the least, and a single coin — first that those of that kind shall benefit nothing, but the first clause shall [be]
53    being a stranger to the holy creed which the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit serve; afterwards he shall pay the account of the fine of twelve holokottina of pure obryzon gold, and they shall exact it from his own substance
54    by the hand of the honored rulers,
55    even so, after the payment of the fine, they shall exact it, and he shall be bound
56    and confirm to the force of this written deed of freedom-from-care
57    of settlement, because I received and I parted
58    from you concerning this inheritance of my parents
59    Loula and Epiphaneios and Maria in any matter,
60    concerning silver, with a year's produce, with vintage, with grain
61    out (of it), in every manner; and to all
62    perfect release, and we settled
63    with one another in completion concerning these
64    all. I swear by the power of the holy consubstantial Trinity and the salvation of our sovereigns
65    to keep the force of this written deed of division
66    which is one of settlement, this which I drew up, secure
67    for you, apart from any fraud or fear or violence or deceit or any seizure and
68    circumvention; it being firm, it being lord in any place
69    where they shall produce it; and they read it
70    to me; it pleased me; I requested a subscriber, and he subscribed it, and [I] asked for [other] trustworthy witnesses, and they bore witness to it
71    for me; I issued it through the notary, complete,
72    according to the [whol]e procedure. It is clear that
73    I reveal again, in this section,
74    that, concerning the matter of the holokottinos and the trimesion …
75    appointing them on the … (?)
76    … us, the boundary … of our brethren
77    … head … I approached you, until you hand over to me the holokottinos and the trimesion …
78    … to me, hand to hand.
79    I, Zebedeos son of Georgeos, bear witness. I,
80    Lole the least deacon of the catholic church in Djeme, [w]rote on his behalf because
81    he does not understand writing.
82    I, Petros son of the blessed Patermouthios, bear
83    witness to this written deed of settlement; I,
84    son of Seuros — he asked me, I [wrote on his behalf]
85    because he does not understand writing, and I bear witness.
86    I, Helias son of the son of the blessed Zacharias, bear witness. I, Georgios son of the blessed
87    Loula, the man of Djeme, the one who [w]rote it first above, consent to this written deed of settlement and of freedom-from-care and
88    everything written in it, the holy creed and the fine.
89    I, Abraham son of the blessed David,
90    he asked me, I wrote on his behalf because he does not understand (letters);
91    Victor son of Joseph the lashane, I bear witness. I, Stephanos son of Moses, bear wit[ness]. I, Abraham son of the blessed Da[vid],
92    wrote in the presence of the persons of my hand (?) because they do not understand (letters).
93    [I,] … ias son of the blessed Basilios, bear witness.
94    I, Abraham son of the blessed Konstantinos, bear witness.
95    I, Shenoute the least presbyter of the holy church …
96    Through me, Psate son of Pisrael, it was written.
