[META]
id:       P.KRU 85
label:    P.KRU 85
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     767 CE – 768 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (767 CE – 768 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de donation d’un enfant à un monastère. Maladie. Femme. Économe
tm:       85986
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;85
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ … λοιπόν …
r.2    ⲛⲧπόλις ⲉⲣⲙⲱⲛⲧ ⲉⲛⲧⲓ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲟⲥ ⲉⲛⲟⲩὑπογραφεύς
r.3    ⲉⲧⲣⲉϥὑπογράφειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ ⲙⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος
r.4    ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν [ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ πρός ⲧⲛαἴτησις]
r.5    ⲧⲱⲛ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲉⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱϣⲉ ⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲁⲛⲧⲓ ⲡⲉⲛⲟⲩⲟⲓ
r.6    ⲉⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν ⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱ[ϣ ⲁⲩ]ⲱ ⲛπείθειν χωρίς ⲗⲁⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲕⲣⲟϥ
r.7    ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲉⲥ ϩⲓ ἀπάτη ϩⲓ συναρπαγή ϩⲓ περιγραφή
r.8    ⲉⲙⲛ ⲟⲩἀνάγκη ⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧⲉ ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ἀλλά ⲙπάσῃ ἀγαθῂ καὶ
r.9    καλῂ προαιρήσεωςχαίρειν ϫⲉ ἐπειδή ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲓκαιρός ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.10   ς ἰνδικτίων ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡἀγαθός ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩ[ⲛ ⲧⲉ]ϥϭⲓϫ ⲁϥⲛⲟⲩϫ ⲟⲩⲛⲟϭ ⲛϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲉϥϣⲟⲃⲉ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲛⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡⲁⲛⲉⲓⲁⲥ πρός
r.11   ⲡⲉⲙⲡϣⲁ ⲛⲛⲉⲛⲛⲟⲃⲉ λοιπόν ⲁⲛⲕⲟ ⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲉϥⲛⲁⲙⲟⲩ
r.12   λοιπόν ⲁⲛⲉⲣⲏⲧ ⲛⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲩⲏⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲗⲉⲓⲁ ⲧϥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.13   ⲙⲛ ⲡϥμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲡἅγιος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲙⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ϫⲉ ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲡⲉⲕⲛⲁ ⲧⲁϩⲱ ⲡⲉⲛⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ
r.14   ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡⲁⲛⲉⲓⲁⲥ ⲛⲅⲧⲟⲩⲛⲱⲥϥ ⲛⲁⲛ ϩⲛ ⲡⲛⲟϭ ⲛϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲉⲧⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲱϥ ϣⲁⲛⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲕτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.15   ⲛϥσυντελεῖν ⲙⲡϥϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲧⲉⲛοἰκονόμος ⲉⲧπροιστάναι ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϫⲓ ⲛϥϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲟϥ
r.16   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡλόγος ⲙⲡλύχνος ⲙⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ
r.17   δέ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲑⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϥⲥⲟⲛ
r.18   ⲙⲛ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲩⲥ ⲛοἰκονόμος ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϫⲓ ⲡϩⲓⲥⲉ
r.19   ⲙⲡⲉⲓⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϫⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ λοιπόν
r.20   ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ κελεύειν ⲙⲛ ⲡϥμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲁϥχαρίζειν ⲛⲁⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲛⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ὥστε ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲧⲁⲣϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲱ ⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲙⲡⲉⲕⲟⲩⲓ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲙⲓⲛⲉ
r.21   ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ καίπερ ⲛνόμος ⲛβασιλικός ⲁⲩⲱ θετικός κελεύειν
r.22   ⲛⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ ϫⲉ ἔξεστι ⲙⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲉⲉⲣ ⲡⲉⲧⲉϥⲟⲩⲁϣϥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲱϥ ⲡⲉ
r.23   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲡⲁⲓ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲁⲛ ϩⲓⲱⲱⲧ ἀλλά ⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲱⲡⲉ
r.24   ϫⲛ ⲙⲡⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲡⲉπροφητής ⲛⲧⲁⲛϥⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ δωρίζειν
r.25   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲣⲡⲉ ⲉⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ὡς δέ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲛοἰκονόμος ⲧⲁⲣⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲱ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.26   ⲙⲡϩⲓⲥⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲕⲟⲩⲓ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ὥστε ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ϩⲱⲧ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲩⲏⲣⲟⲥ
r.27   ⲙⲛ ⲗⲉⲓⲁ ⲧϥⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲛϣ ⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉⲕⲟⲩⲓ
r.28   ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ οὔδε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔδε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔδε ⲥⲱⲛⲉ οὔδε ϩⲁ ⲡⲁⲉⲓⲱⲧ
r.29   οὔδε ϩⲁ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ ἤ ϩⲛ ⲡⲁγένος ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲡⲁγένος ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩⲉ
r.30   ⲙπροσέλευσις κατά ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛδωρίζειν
r.31   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ὥστε ⲗⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛⲧⲉⲥ
r.32   ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲁ ⲡⲁⲙⲉⲣⲓⲧ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.33   ⲡⲁⲛⲉⲓⲁⲥ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ⲉⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲁϩⲧⲏⲛ
r.34   ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἐξουσία ⲉⲧϫⲟⲥⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲁ ⲉⲓⲟⲟⲩ πρῶτον μέν ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ
r.35   ⲉϥⲱ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲱ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲛⲉχριστιανός ⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ
r.36   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙ[ⲛ] ⲡⲉπνευ̃μα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲉτριάς ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛὁμοούσιος
r.37   ϩⲛ ⲡαἰών ⲡⲁⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲟⲥ ⲛϥⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲙⲛⲧⲉⲣⲱ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.38   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉϥϣ ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲥⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲙⲡδευτερονόμιον ⲙⲟⲥⲏⲩ ⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ⲉⲡⲉⲓϩⲱⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲁⲥⲕ
r.39   ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲍⲁⲭⲁⲣⲓⲁⲥ ⲧⲁⲕⲱ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲉ ⲛⲟⲩϥ ⲛⲉ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁⲉⲣ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲏⲧϥ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.40   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲥⲁϩⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲁⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲃ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡἀγαθός ⲉϥⲉⲛⲁϩⲙⲉϥ ⲉⲛⲉⲧ
r.41   ϣⲱⲡ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ϩⲛ ⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣ ⲟⲩⲛⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲧϥψυχή
r.42   ϩⲛ ⲛⲙⲁ ⲛⲙⲧⲟⲛ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲉⲡⲟⲣϫ οὖν ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ
r.43   ⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν ϥⲟⲣϫ ϥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁϫⲛⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲛὁμολόγειν
r.44   [ⲁⲛ]ⲟⲛ ⲫⲓⲗⲱ[ⲑⲉⲟ]ⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲥⲟⲗⲱⲙⲱⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲛ ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ
r.45   ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲩⲛⲑⲉ ⲡϣⲛ ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ … ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲯⲁⲧⲏ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲇ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉπρόσωπον ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲡⲉδωρεαστικόν ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ
r.46   ⲡδωρεαστικόν ⲛⲡⲁⲛⲓ … ⲁⲥ [ⲡϣ]ⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲩⲏⲣⲟⲥ

[TRANSLATION]
1     The fortress of Djeme … further …
2     of the city of Hermonth, giving, with afterwards a subscriber
3     to subscribe for us and other trustworthy witnesses
4     these who shall bear witness to the deed of gift [for us, according to our request,]
5     of our own selves, with our heart's will, according to our own intent,
6     to the deed of gift, willing [an]d persuaded, apart from any fraud
7     or fear or violence or deceit or seizure or circumvention,
8     there being no compulsion laid upon us, but in all good and
9     fine free choice, greeting: Since, in this time, this one in which we are,
10    the 6(th) indiction, God the Good, in whom everyone exists, in [hi]s hand cast a great sickness, weighing upon our beloved son Paneias, according to
11    the desert of our sins; further, we instructed you that he would die.
12    Further, we vowed thus, I Seuros and Leia his (her) mother, before God
13    and his holy martyr, the holy saint Apa Phoibammon of the mountain of the fortress of Djeme, that if your mercy should heal our beloved
14    son Paneias, and you raise him up for us from the great sickness which holds sway upon him, until I give him into your holy place,
15    that he serve in his labor in the holy place forever, and that our steward who presides over the holy place receive his labor and reckon it (?)
16    to the account of the lamp of the holy monastery; now
17    then I write to you, you Apa Kyriakos and Mathaios his brother
18    and Sourous, stewards of the holy place, that you receive the labor
19    of this little child, that you reckon him out to the holy place. Further,
20    God commanded, with his holy martyr the saint Apa Phoibammon, and he bestowed our beloved son upon us, so that the holy place should be lord of the little child of this kind
21    forever, although the imperial and statutory laws command
22    thus, that it is lawful for each one to do what he wills with that which is his own,
23    and that this matter did not come from myself, but it came to be
24    since the time of Samuel the prophet, whom his parents gave
25    into the temple of the Lord. So then, you stewards, that you come in and take hold and become lords
26    of the labor of the little child forever, so that to me also, I Seuros
27    and Leia his (her) mother, that we may not come out to the holy place concerning the little
28    child of this kind, neither I nor brother nor sister nor on (the side of) my father
29    nor on (the side of) my mother, whether in my kindred or outside my kindred, who shall make any
30    approach against the holy place, because we donated
31    him into the holy place, so that any man whatsoever of those (?)
32    of Djeme should come out to the holy place concerning my beloved son
33    Paneias — the one who shall dare to come out to the holy place, beside us,
34    any authority that is exalted, that is in glory — first he shall be
35    a stranger to the holy creed of the Christians, the Father and
36    the Son a[nd] the Holy Spirit and the holy consubstantial Trinity
37    in this age and the (one) that comes after; afterwards he shall not see the kingdom of God
38    that is opened, that he shall not be able to go into it; and the curse of Deuteronomy of Moses shall come upon the one who shall dare against this matter; and the curse (?)
39    of Saint Zacharias shall destroy him; and those that are his shall be the one who shall fear God
40    and the curses of the saint of this holy place; God the Good shall save him among those
41    who all (?) gave (?) in the deed of gift; and God shall do mercy with his soul
42    in the places of repose forever. To this assurance then of the holy place, we drew up
43    the deed of gift, it being firm, having power in any place where they shall question (us), our acknowledging.
44    [W]e, Philo[theo]s son of the blessed Solomon and Phoibammon brother of Iohannes
45    and Synthe (?) brother of Abraham … I, Psate son of the blessed David, wrote in the presence of the persons, and I drew up the deed of gift, of my hand.
46    The deed of gift of Pani … as [s]on of Seuros.
