[META]
id:       P.KRU 7
label:    P.KRU 7
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     730 CE – 739 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (730 CE – 739 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de vente d’un terrain. Lashanés. Émir. Pagarque. Nom arabe. Archiprêtre. Femme
tm:       85910
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;7
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    [ ϩⲙ ⲡⲣⲁⲛ] ⲙⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ [ⲙⲉ ⲡ]ⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩ[ⲁⲁⲃ.] [10]
r.2    … ⲭ[ⲁⲏⲗ ⲡ]ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲯⲙⲱ ⲙⲛ ⲇⲓⲙⲏⲧⲣⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣ[ⲉ] …
r.3    ⲛⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲓⲩ ⲙⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις ⲣⲙⲱⲛⲧ χαίρειν
r.4    ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲁⲙⲁⲁⲩ
r.5    ⲧⲉ ⲗⲓⲁ ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡⲉκάστρον ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲉⲓⲧⲓ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲟⲥ ⲛⲛⲟⲩὑπογραφεύς ⲉⲧⲣⲉϥὑπογράφειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲉⲡⲉἔγγραφον ⲙπρᾶσις
r.6    ⲛⲁⲧⲙⲙⲓⲁⲕⲱⲛ ⲛαἰώνιος ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ ⲛⲁⲧπαραβαίνειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.7    ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲧπαρασαλεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲛνόμος ⲉⲓαἰτεῖν δέ ⲟ[ⲛ]
r.8    ⲛϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲩμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ
r.9    πρός ⲧⲁαἴτησις ⲧⲱⲓ ⲙⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁἐπιτροπή
r.10   ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲓⲁⲕⲱⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲫⲁⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡⲉκάστρον
r.11   ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧⲉπόλις ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ϫⲉ ἐπειδή ϩⲛ ⲡⲉκαιρός
r.12   ⲡⲁⲓ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲥⲟⲩⲗⲁⲓⲉⲓⲙⲁⲛ ⲡἀμιρᾶ
r.13   ⲉⲓⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓπείθειν ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲁϫⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.14   ⲛⲕⲣⲟⲩϥ ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ ἀπάτη ϩⲓ συναρπαγή ϩⲓ περιγραφή
r.15   ⲉⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἀνάγκη ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ἀλλά ϩⲛ ⲧⲁπροαίρησις ⲧⲱⲓ
r.16   ⲙⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ ⲧⲛὁμολογεῖν ⲉⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲛ ⲙⲡⲟⲟⲩ
r.17   ⲛϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲛϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲙⲛⲧϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛδίκαιον ⲉⲩϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.18   ⲛνόμος ⲙπρᾶσις ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.19   ⲉϥⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲙⲡⲁμέρος ⲛⲉⲓⲱϩ ⲃⲣⲣⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲛ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲛⲧⲁϥⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲓ
r.20   ϩⲁ ⲧⲁμακάριος ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲗⲓⲁ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲥἀλλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲱⲱⲥ ⲙⲛ ϩⲓⲗⲓⲁⲥ
r.21   ⲡⲟⲩⲥ ⲛⲧⲥⲉⲣⲭⲟⲩ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲁⲗⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲣⲙ ⲡϩⲟⲩⲙⲁⲣⲉ
r.22   ⲡⲁⲛϩ δέ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲧⲉϥⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲧⲱⲓ ⲧⲉ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲧⲉϥⲕⲉⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲧⲁ
r.23   ⲛⲉϥⲧⲁϣ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲡⲣⲉⲥ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲃⲗⲗⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲡⲉⲥⲛⲧⲉ ⲙⲡϣⲟⲩⲙⲁⲣⲉ
r.24   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲃⲗⲗⲉ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲟⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲣⲱ ⲛⲁⲩⲑⲏⲛⲧⲏⲥ ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲉⲣⲟϥ
r.25   ⲡⲉⲉⲓⲃⲧ ⲥⲁⲛⲉⲑ ⲛⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲣⲥ ⲙⲡϩⲟⲩⲙⲁⲣⲉ ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧⲉ ⲥⲱⲗⲱⲙⲱⲛ
r.26   ⲙⲡⲟⲩⲥ ⲧτιμή ⲛⲧⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲁⲁⲥ πρός ⲡδόξον ⲙⲛ πρός ⲧδοκιμασία
r.27   ⲙⲡⲉⲕⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲉἔμπειρος ⲛⲧⲉ ⲡκάστρον ⲡⲉ ϯⲟⲩ τριμήσιον
r.28   ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲛὄβρυζος γίνεται χρύσου νομίσματα α 𐅷 ⲧⲉτιμή οὖν ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣ[ⲣ]ⲡ τάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.29   ϯὁμολογεῖν ϫⲉ ⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲁⲁⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲩϣⲁⲧ ⲁⲛ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲁⲓϩⲓⲧⲟⲩ ⲁⲓϫⲓⲧⲟⲩ
r.30   ⲛϭⲓϫ ⲉϭⲓϫ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲉⲧⲁϫⲣⲱ ⲙⲙⲱⲧⲛ
r.31   πρός ⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲓⲙ ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲉⲕⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ϣⲱϫⲡ ⲉⲡⲁϩⲟⲩ ϩⲛ ⲡμέρος ⲛⲕⲁϩ
r.32   ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲙⲡⲓⲧⲁϥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ δέ ὥστε ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲧⲁⲣⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛκελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲣ ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.33   ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲙⲛⲧϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲙⲡⲁμέρος ϩⲛ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲉ
r.34   ⲧⲉϥⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲧⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓσυμφαινίζειν ⲛⲛⲉϥⲧⲁϣ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲉⲕⲁⲧϥ
r.35   ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲓⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲓδιοικεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲓοἱκονομεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉφιλοκαλεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.36   ⲉⲕⲁⲧϥ ⲉⲟⲩⲁϩⲙⲉϥ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉχαρίζειν
r.37   ⲉἀποχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉδωρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲁπαραχωρεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉἀλλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.38   ⲉⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛκληρονόμος ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ⲉχρῆσθαι ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲥⲙⲟⲩⲧ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉϩⲛⲉⲧⲛ ⲉπράττειν
r.39   ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ νομή ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲓ ⲙⲛⲧϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲓ κατοχή ⲛϩⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.40   κυρίως καὶ ἀνεπικολύτως ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲁⲓπληροῦν
r.41   ϩⲓⲧⲱⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲉϥτιμή οὐκ ἔξεστι ⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ
r.42   ⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ καθ’ οἱονδήποτε τρόπον ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉⲩϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.43   ⲉⲧⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲟⲓ ⲡⲉ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ
r.44   οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ οὔτε ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.45   ποτε καιρῷ καὶ χρόνῳ ϫⲓ ⲧτιμή ⲛⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛⲧⲁⲁⲥ ϭⲱϫⲃ παρά ⲧτιμή
r.46   ⲛⲧⲁⲩσυντιμάζειν ⲙⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ἀλλά ⲧⲛⲱ ⲛἕτοιμος ⲧⲁⲣⲛⲣⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ
r.47   ⲉⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲉⲓὠνή ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲛ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.48   εἰ δέ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲧⲉⲟⲩⲁ τολμᾶν ὡς εἰκός ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲏⲧⲛ καθ’ οἱονδήποτε τρόπον ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲧⲉⲓὠνή ἤ μέρος ⲛⲧⲁⲥ ⲉⲡⲧⲏⲣϥ ἐπί τῷ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν
r.49   ⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲧⲉⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲛⲉϥϯ ϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲱ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ
r.50   ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ [ⲡⲉ]πνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛϥϯ ⲉπρόστιμον ⲛⲥⲁϣϥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος
r.51   χρύσου νομίσματα ζ ⲉⲓⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ⲥⲟⲣϫ ⲥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ϩⲛ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.52   ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲁⲩⲟϣ[ⲥ] ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥⲱⲧⲙⲉⲥ ⲁⲥⲉⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲓ
r.53   ⲁⲓⲧⲁϫⲣⲟⲥ ⲛὑπογραφή ϩⲓ μάρτυρος ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲥϫⲏⲕ πρὸς πᾶσαν ἀκολουθίαν
r.54   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣ[ⲣ]ⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲧⲉστοιχεῖν
r.55   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡἀρχιπρεσβύτερος ϯⲱ [ⲙⲛ]ⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ
r.56   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲕⲩⲣⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲕⲏⲛ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.57   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲭⲁⲏⲗ ⲯⲙⲱ ⲡⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.58   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲅⲓⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲛϣⲙⲧⲥⲛⲏⲩ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.59   ⲙⲱⲩⲥⲏⲥ υἱός ⲥⲉⲛⲑⲓ ἀρχιπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ
r.60   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲱⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ἀρχιπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ αἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲡⲉἔγγραφον ⲙπρᾶσις ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ πρός ⲧⲉϥαἴτησις
r.61   ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲡ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲗⲓⲁ ⲏⲗⲓⲁⲥ ⲡⲟⲩⲥ ⲧⲥⲉⲗⲭⲟⲩ
r.62   ⲡⲉⲉⲓⲏⲃⲧⲉ ⲥⲁⲛⲉⲑ ⲁⲛⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲣⲥ ⲡϩⲟⲩⲙⲁⲣ
r.63   ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲡⲉⲥⲛⲧⲉ ⲙⲡϣⲟⲩⲙⲁⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲣⲱ
r.64   ⲡⲣⲏ[ⲥ] ⲡϩⲓ[ⲣ] ⲃⲉⲗⲉ
r.65   ⲅⲓⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ϣⲙ

[TRANSLATION]
1     [In the name] of the Father and the Son [and the] Holy [Sp]irit. [10]
2     … Ch[ael the s]on of Psmo and Dimetre the so[n] …
3     the village-headmen of the fortress of Djeme, the nome of the city Rmont, greeting.
4     I, Iosep the son of the blessed Anthanasios — my mother
5     is Lia — the man of the one fortress of Djeme, give, and afterwards a subscriber to subscribe on my behalf to this written deed of sale,
6     indissoluble, eternal, which is written, not to be transgressed,
7     and not to be disturbed (annulled) by the laws; and I also request
8     other trustworthy witnesses to witness to it on my behalf,
9     according to my request, my very own, together with my authorization.
10    I write to Iakob and Phanios, the sons of Petros, the men of the one fortress
11    of Djeme, the nome of the one city Rmont, that, since in this time,
12    this one now which is laid before Soulaieiman the amir,
13    I willed to write to you, and I am persuaded, I, Iosep (son of) Nathanasios, without any
14    deceit or fear or extortion or fraud or coercion or circumvention,
15    there being no compulsion laid upon me, but rather of my purpose, my very
16    own, through it, we acknowledge: I sell to you, from this day,
17    on which we first wrote, in every lordship of right, complete,
18    the law of the sale; and I write from now for all time, forever,
19    coming after; my portion, the living(-plot?) which came to me as a new property in my living(-share) which came to me
20    from my blessed mother Lia, this which she exchanged, herself, with Hilias
21    the foot (lower part?) of Tserchou, this which is laid on the street of Petros (son of) Petale and the man of Houmare;
22    that living(-share), its half is mine, of Iosep, its other half is that
23    of his (her?) boundaries, these: the south, the street of Belle inward; the north, the foundation of the Shoumare;
24    and the street of Belle inward again, and the door of the owners opens onto it,
25    the east, Saneth (son of) Anthanasios, the south of the Houmare; the west, Solomon;
26    the foot (lower part?). The price which you gave according to the standard and according to the testing
27    of the builder and other experts of the fortress, is five tremision
28    of pure gold, making 1½ gold solidi; the price, then, which I first fixed,
29    I acknowledge that you gave it to me, lacking nothing; I took them, I received them
30    from hand to hand, I, Iosep the son of Anthanasios; I confirm it to you
31    against every confirmation, that no one of you (?) shall be left behind concerning the portion of land
32    that one, which I did not give to you; from now then, so that you may come in and take hold and command it and become lord
33    over it in every lordship, of my portion in that whole living(-share), that is
34    its half, which I declared its boundaries to you from above, that you may take it
35    for yourselves, dwelling in it, administering it, managing it, embellishing it,
36    taking it back, re-taking it up unto (yourselves), dwelling in it, disposing of it, granting it,
37    making a counter-grant of it, donating it, ceding it, exchanging it,
38    leaving it to your children and your heirs and all those who come after you, to use it in every manner that is in your (power), to act
39    concerning it in every possession and every lordship and every tenure forever,
40    properly and unhinderedly; because I received (it) and was paid in full
41    by you of its price, it is not permitted to me — I, Iosep, who first wrote above —
42    to come against you in any manner whatsoever concerning any matter, suing
43    concerning the portion of that living(-share); neither I, nor child of mine, nor brother,
44    nor near-kin one nor near-kin two nor near-kin of near-kin nor any man, ever,
45    at any time and season, to take the price which you gave, reduced, beneath the price
46    at which they valued the living(-share); but rather we are ready, that we may watch over you (it) for you
47    against every power, of this lordly purchase, in every place where it shall be produced.
48    And if it should happen that someone dare, as may be, to bring suit against you in any manner whatsoever concerning this purchase, or a portion of it, in whole, on the condition that the one who shall dare
49    against the matter of this kind shall gain nothing, but rather he shall become a stranger to the Father
50    and the Son and the [H]oly Spirit, and he shall pay a penalty of seven holokottinoi,
51    seven gold solidi; I confirm it to you and to those who come after you, firm and valid in every place
52    where it shall be produced; it was read aloud to me, I heard it, it pleased me,
53    I confirmed it with a subscription and witness; we have set it forth, complete, against all due order.
54    I, Iosep the son of Anthanasios, who first wrote above, I consent.
55    I, Shenoute the archpresbyter, I bear witness, and I have written on his behalf.
56    I, Pakyre the son of Anken, I bear witness.
57    I, Chael (son of) Psmo, the village-headman, I bear witness.
58    I, Giorgios (son of) Shmtseny, I bear witness.
59    Mouses (Moses) son of Senthi, archpresbyter: I have written on their behalf.
60    I, Mouses the son of Shenoute, archpresbyter, Iosep having requested of me, I have written this written deed of sale by my hand, according to his request.
61    Iosep the son of Anthanasios, Lia, Helias the foot (lower part?) of Tselchou,
62    the east, Saneth (son of) Anthanasios, the south of the Houmar,
63    the north, the foundation of the Shoumai, and the door,
64    the south, the street of Bele.
65    Giorgios, the foreigner(?) (shm).
