[META]
id:       P.KRU 107
label:    P.KRU 107
name:     Contract — Theben
genre:    contracts
date:     767 CE – 768 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (767 CE – 768 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schenkung von Land an ein Kloster — griechisches Protokoll und Unterschrift
tm:       23229
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;107
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ⲡⲉⲓ] δωρεαστικόν ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ ⲛⲁⲧπαραβαίνειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲧπαρασαλεύειν
r.2    ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲛⲉνόμος … ⲧⲁϫⲣⲱ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲓⲧⲛ
r.3    ϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟϥ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲛ
r.4    πρός ⲧⲛαἴτησις ⲧⲱⲛ ⲙⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟⲛ ⲙⲛ ⲧⲛἐπιτροπή
r.5    [ⲉ]ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲙⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲙ[ⲡ]κάστρον
r.6    [ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ] [ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ]ⲕ ⲡεὐλαβέστατος ⲙπρεσβύτερος
r.7    ⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡοἰκονόμος ⲙⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ …
r.8    χαίρειν ϫⲉ ἐπειδή ϩⲙ ⲡⲉⲓκαιρός ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲋ ἰνδικτίονος ⲁⲛⲧⲉⲓ
r.9    ⲡⲉⲛⲟⲩⲟⲓ ⲉⲡⲉ δωρεαστικόν ⲉⲛⲟⲩⲱϣⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛπείθειν χωρίς ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.10   ⲛⲕⲣⲟϥ ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ ἀπάτη ϩⲓ συναρπαγή ϩⲓ περιγραφή ⲛδωρίζειν ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲛⲟⲩⲛⲱϩ
r.11   ⲛⲕⲁϩ ⲙπλάτος ϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲓⲱⲣ ⲛⲧⲥⲁⲧϥⲉ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ πρός ⲑⲉ
r.12   ⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲉϥⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲧⲟⲣⲕ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱϩⲉ ⲙⲡἅγιος
r.13   ⲁⲡⲁ ϩⲁⲧⲣⲏ ⲙⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲙⲓⲗⲉ ⲧⲁⲣⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲟ ⲙⲡϥϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛϫⲱ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡλόγος
r.14   ⲙⲡλύχνος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ϩⲱⲛ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲛϣⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡτόπος
r.15   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲛ
r.16   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛδωρίζειν ⲙⲡⲉⲛⲱϩ ⲛⲕⲁϩ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ⲛⲉϥⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ἀρχοντικός ἤ ἐκκλησιαστικός ἤ ϩⲙ πραιτώριον ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲙπραιτώριον
r.17   ἤ ⲛⲧⲛⲥⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲙπροσέλευσις κατάⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁϩⲧⲏⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩⲉ
r.18   ⲉⲛἐξουσία ⲉϥϫⲟⲥⲉ ⲉϥϩⲁ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ πρῶτον μέν ⲛⲛⲉϥὠφελεῖν
r.19   ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.20   ⲛⲛⲉχριστιανός ⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.21   ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲉϥⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲙⲛⲧⲉⲣⲟ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.22   ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉϥⲉϣ ⲃⲱⲕ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲉⲡⲱⲣϫ οὖν ⲙⲡθεόφορος
r.23   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛκαλλίνικος ⲙμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ
r.24   ⲡⲉⲓ δωρεαστικόν ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲁⲑⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲕⲥⲟⲛ
r.25   ⲙⲛ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲩⲥ ἁπλῶς ⲙⲛ ⲡⲥⲉⲉⲡⲉ ⲛⲛοἰκονόμος ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ
r.26   ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ϥⲟⲣϫ ϥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲩⲱ ϥβεβαιοῦν ϩⲙ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ
r.27   ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲛⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲛὁμολογεῖν
r.28   ⲁⲩⲟϣϥ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲁϥⲉⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ πρός ⲧἀκολουθία
r.29   ⲛⲉⲛνόμος
r.30   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲁⲕⲓⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛⲑⲓⲥ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν
r.31   ⲉⲡⲉⲓ δωρεαστικόν πρός ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.32   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲉⲍⲉⲕⲓⲏⲗ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲅⲣⲏⲅⲟⲣⲓⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲡⲓ δωρεαστικόν πρός ⲑⲉ
r.33   ⲉⲧⲉϥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲙⲟⲥ
r.34   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲁⲛⲁⲛⲓ ϩⲛ ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲓ δωρεαστικόν πρός ⲧϥϭⲟⲙ
r.35   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲛ ⲡμακάριος ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ϩⲛ ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲓ δωρεαστικόν πρός ⲧⲉϥϭⲟⲙ
r.36   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲇⲣⲓⲁⲛⲏ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ϩⲛ ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛ[ⲧ] ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲓ δωρεαστικόν πρός ⲧⲉϭⲟⲙ
r.37   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲟⲙⲉⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲭⲁⲏⲗ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲉ
r.38   ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ
r.39   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ψάτη υἱοῦ τοῦ μακαρίου Δαυὶδ ἀπὸ κάστρου Μεμνωνίου ἐγράφη .
r.40   δωρεαστικὸν γενάμενον ὑπὲρ … τοῦ [ἁγ]ιωτάτου [ἀ]ββᾶ Φοιβάμμωνος ὄρου[ς] Μεμνωνίου .
r.41   περὶ τῶν ἀνθ Ερμων.
r.42   ἐν ὀνόματι τῆς ἁγίας καὶ ζωοποιοῦ ὁμοουσίου τριάδος πατρὸς καὶ υἱοῦ …

[TRANSLATION]
1     … this deed of donation which is written, not to be transgressed and not to be shaken
2     out of the laws … to confirm it through
3     some further trustworthy witnesses who shall testify to it on our behalf,
4     according to our own request and our authority.
5     [We] write to the holy Apa Phoibammon of the mountain of the fortress
6     [of Djeme,] by your hand, the most pious priest,
7     Apa Kyriakos, the steward of the holy place …,
8     greeting. Since at this present time in which we are, the 6th indiction, we have come
9     of our own accord to this donation of our own will, and being persuaded without any
10    deceit or fear or violence or fraud or extortion or coercion, to donate to you, you, Apa Phoibammon, a plot
11    of land in breadth from this canal of Satphe up to the mountain, according to the manner
12    in which we shall demarcate its boundaries to you, this which adjoins the field of the holy
13    Apa Hatre of the mountain of Pmile, so that you may become and be its lord, applying it to the monastery for the account
14    of the holy lamp; we ourselves agree that we will make no claim against the holy place
15    forever, neither we nor all those who come after us,
16    because we have donated our plot of land into your hands; and whoever shall dare that he come against the holy monastery, whether by an official or an ecclesiastic, or in the praetorium, or outside the praetorium,
17    or that he establish any proceeding against you in opposition, anyone
18    in authority, exalted or in glory: first of all he shall not profit
19    in anything, but he shall become a stranger to the holy oath
20    of the Christians, the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
21    and afterwards he shall not see the kingdom of God which is revealed,
22    so that he shall not be able to enter it. Therefore, for the separation of the God-bearing
23    and gloriously victorious holy martyr Apa Phoibammon, we have established
24    this donation for you, you Apa Kyriakos and Matthaios your brother
25    and Apa Sourous, in short, and the rest of all the stewards who come
26    after you, that it be firm, valid, and guaranteed in every place
27    where it shall be produced, and they shall question (us) and we shall acknowledge it.
28    It was read to us; we approved it; we let it go forth according to the order
29    of the laws.
30    I, Senouthios, son of the blessed Ioannakios from Hermonthis, agree
31    to this donation according to the manner in which it is written.
32    I, Iezekiel, son of the blessed Gregorios from Hermonth, agree to this donation according to the manner
33    in which it is written.
34    I, Komes, son of the blessed Anani from Hermonth, agree to this donation to the best of his ability.
35    I, Senouthios, son of the blessed Ioannes from Hermonth, agree to this donation to the best of his ability.
36    I, Adriane, the son of Markos from Hermonth, agree to this donation to the best of his ability.
37    I, Komes, son of the blessed Chael, the man of the fortress of Djeme,
38    I bear witness according to the request of those who established it.
39    Through me, Psate son of the blessed David from the fortress of Memnonion, it was written.
40    A donation made on behalf of … the most holy Abba Phoibammon of the mountain of Memnonion.
41    Concerning the … of Hermonth.
42    In the name of the holy and life-giving consubstantial Trinity, Father and Son …
