[META]
id:       P.KRU 122
label:    P.KRU 122
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     501 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (501 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Procès-verbal. Affaire judiciaire. Maison. Terrain. Héritage. Femme. Grec
tm:       86023
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;122
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐν ὀνόματι τοῦ κυρίου ἡ ἁγία Τριάς
r.2    ἐγράφη μηνὶ Μησορὴ κε ⲧⲉⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ πρῶτος
r.3    ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲛⲉⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲉⲕτιμιότης ⲛⲥⲟⲛ
r.4    ⲛ ⲧⲁⲕⲧⲛⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥ ϣⲁ ⲧⲛεὐτέλεια [ⲁⲛⲣⲁϣⲉ]
r.5    ϫⲉ ⲁⲛϩⲉ ⲉⲡⲉⲕⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲥ … ⲉⲕκελεύειν
r.6    ⲇⲏ … ⲉⲛⲁ ⲫⲱⲃ ⲛⲛⲉγραμματηφόρος
r.7    [ⲉ]ⲧἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲕⲁϩ ⲛκληρονομία ⲙⲛ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲉ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ
r.8    ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲭ[ⲁⲙ] ⲡⲉ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ μέν ϩⲓ
r.9    ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲙμέρος ⲡⲉϫⲁⲁϥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩⲛⲧⲟ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ
r.10   ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲛⲧⲉ ⲟⲩⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲛ ⲛⲛγνήσιος
r.11   ⲉⲁⲧⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲃⲓⲧϥ ⲙⲁⲟⲩⲁⲧⲥ ⲁⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲩ ἀπὸ μέρους ⲁ[ⲩⲱ]
r.12   ⲧⲁϩⲁⲙ ϩⲱⲥ ϩⲓ ⲡⲕⲉⲟⲩⲁ ⲙμέρος ⲡⲉϫⲁⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛϣⲟⲡϥ ⲛⲧⲟⲧϥ ⲙⲡμακάριος ϩⲏⲙⲥ ⲉϥⲟⲩⲏϩ ⲛⲉⲣ … ⲛⲧⲟⲧϥ ⲁⲓϫⲓ πρᾶσις ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲟⲛ ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲩ ἀπὸ μέρους
r.13   πρός ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲟϫϥ ⲉⲡⲉⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲁⲛⲟⲡϥ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩδίκαιος ⲡⲉ
r.14   ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲧⲁϩⲁⲙ ϭⲛ ⲙⲛⲧⲧⲣⲉ
r.15   ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ἤ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ϩⲙ ⲡⲧⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲩⲙⲡϣⲁ ⲙπιστεύειν ⲛⲁⲩ ⲉπρᾶσις ⲉⲁⲥϣⲱⲡ ⲡⲉⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲟⲧϥ ⲙⲡμακάριος ϩⲏⲙⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ϩⲙ ⲡⲧⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲡⲉϥἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲥ ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲥἐξουσία ϫⲉ ⲁⲡϩⲱⲃ ⲣ χρόνος ϫⲉ ϣⲁⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ϩⲓⲧⲛ
r.16   ⲛⲉⲧⲟ ⲛⲛⲟϭ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ϫⲉ μόνος πρᾶσις
r.17   μέντοι γε δέ ⲉⲥⲧⲙϭⲓⲛ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.18   ⲉϥⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲉπρᾶσις ⲉⲩⲛⲁϫⲓⲧⲥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.19   ⲉⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ
r.20   ϫⲉ ⲁⲥἀπολογίζεσθαι ⲛⲟⲩ ⲙⲡμακάριος
r.21   ϩⲏⲙⲥ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ἀπολογίζεσθαι
r.22   ⲛⲁⲥ ⲙⲡⲉϥμέρος ⲛⲥⲉⲡⲉϣⲡⲏⲓ ⲉϫⲱⲟⲩ
r.23   ⲙⲡμέρος ⲥⲛⲁⲩ
r.24   [ⲉⲧ]ⲃⲉ ⲡ[ϩ]ⲱⲃ ⲟⲛ ⲛϩⲉⲛμέρος ⲛⲕⲁϩ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲁⲛϩ
r.25   ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲛⲧⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛⲕⲁϫ ⲙⲙⲁⲁϫⲉ ⲧ … [ⲕ]ⲁϩ ⲛⲥⲁⲣⲁ ϣⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲃⲛⲛⲉ ⲛⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲓⲱⲥⲏ[ⲫ]
r.26   ϩⲓ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲉϫⲁⲁϥ ϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲉⲛⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ συναλίζειν ⲙ[ⲛ]
r.27   ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϩⲓ ⲛⲕⲁϩ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲥⲱⲗⲡ ⲉⲃ[ⲟⲗ]
r.28   ⲙⲡⲁⲧⲉⲓⲉⲓ [ⲉ]ⲡⲧⲏ ⲁⲛⲥⲉⲧⲙ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲟⲛ ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲩ ἀπὸ μέρους ⲧⲁϩⲁⲙ ϩⲱⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲫⲁⲩⲥⲧⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ
r.29   ϩⲱⲟⲩ ϩⲓ ⲡⲕⲉⲟⲩⲁ ⲙμέρος ⲡⲉϫⲁⲁⲩ ϫⲉ [ⲙ]ⲡⲛⲡⲁϣⲟⲩ οὐδέ ⲙⲡⲛⲥⲱⲗⲡ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉμέρος ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ
r.30   ⲟⲛ ⲁⲛⲕⲁⲁⲩ ἀπὸ μέρους πρός ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲟϫⲟⲩ ⲉⲡⲉⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲁⲛⲟⲡϥ ϫⲉ
r.31   ⲟⲩδίκαιος ⲡⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲣϣⲁⲛⲧⲉⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ
r.32   ϩⲉ ⲉⲙⲛⲧⲧⲣⲉ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ἤ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲉⲩⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲉⲩⲙⲡϣⲁ ⲙπιστεύειν ⲛⲁⲩ ⲉἔγγραφον ⲉⲁⲩⲡⲱϣ ⲛⲉⲕⲁϩ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲩϣ ἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲣⲏⲩ
r.33   ϩⲁ ⲡⲉμέρος ⲡⲁⲓ ἀλλά ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲁϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲁⲧⲟⲩ ⲉⲛⲉⲩⲧⲟϣ πρός ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲡⲟ[ⲗⲕ ⲙⲙ]ⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲁⲡϩⲱⲃ ⲣ χρόνος
r.34   μέντοι γε δέ ⲉⲧⲙⲧⲉⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ
r.35   ϭⲛ ⲙⲛⲧⲇⲣⲉ ⲉϥⲛϩⲟⲧ ἤ διάλυσις ⲛἔγγραφον ⲉⲁⲩ συναλίζειν
r.36   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲩⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲉⲩⲛⲁϫⲓ ⲧⲁϩⲁⲙ
r.37   ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲏⲓ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲧⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲙⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲟⲥ ⲉⲧⲟ ⲛⲛⲟϭ ϩⲛ ⲧἡλικία ϫⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲡⲉϣ
r.38   ⲛⲉⲕⲁϩ οὐδέ ⲙⲡⲛσυναλίζειν ⲙⲛ
r.39   ⲛ[ⲉⲩ]ⲉⲣⲏⲩ ⲛⲧⲛⲥⲱⲗⲡ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ
r.40   ⲉ … ⲁⲛ … ⲕ γάρ ⲉⲩⲛⲁⲡⲁϣⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ
r.41   ⲛ[ⲉⲛ]ⲉⲣ[ⲏⲩ] πρός ⲧⲉⲩἀναλογία
r.42   ⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ἐγράφη μηνὶ
r.43   [Μ]η[σορὴ] κε ⲛⲧⲉⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ πρῶτος

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the Lord, the Holy Trinity.
2     It was written in the month Mesore 25, the first year (of the indiction).
3     I received the letter of Your Honor, brother,
4     which you sent to Our Humility. [We rejoiced]
5     that we found news of your safety in it. … you command
6     indeed … unto the affairs of the letter-carriers
7     to bring suit against one another concerning some plots of inherited land and the house of their fathers,
8     namely the house which is Tacham's — Joseph, on
9     the one part, said: "I have a claim
10    to it, namely a genuine sister's portion of yours,
11    since Tacham took it for herself alone; we heard (the case), we settled them in part." And
12    Tacham, likewise, on the other part, said: "He sold it from the blessed Hems, who dwells … from him I bought it by purchase." When we heard them, again we settled them in part,
13    according to what God placed in our heart, we reckoned that it is just.
14    If Tacham finds witnesses,
15    two or three in the village, who are worthy to be believed, regarding the sale, since the house was acquired from the blessed Hems, while Joseph, in the village, did not bring suit against her, it shall fall under her authority, since the matter has grown old, so that we hear (it) through
16    those who are great over us, that the sale alone (stands).
17    Moreover indeed, if she fails to find witnesses
18    worthy to be believed regarding the sale, they shall take it back into
19    the holy place, and they shall make oath upon it
20    that she gave an account of (the share) of the blessed
21    Hems under him; and Joseph shall give an account
22    to her of his portion, and the house shall be divided over them
23    in two portions.
24    Concerning the matter again of certain portions of land which are the life
25    of the threshing-floor — the surrounding circuit of the field of the dovecote, the … land of the south up to the edge of the date-palms — of Georgios (and?) Joseph,
26    on the one part he said: "Our fathers held in common with
27    one another in that land, they divided it
28    before I came to the land, we heard (it); again we settled them in part." And Tacham, likewise, with Faustos and Aaron,
29    they too, on the other part, said: "We did not divide, nor did we separate from one another regarding the portions of these (lands)." When we heard,
30    again we settled them in part, according to what God placed in our heart, we reckoned that
31    it is just. As for this, if Joseph
32    finds two or three witnesses who are worthy to be believed in writing, that the lands were divided with their fathers, so that they cannot bring suit against one another
33    over this portion, but they shall stand each at their boundary according to the way they apportioned it, since the matter has grown old.
34    Moreover indeed, if Joseph
35    fails to find a trustworthy witness, or a written settlement that they held in common
36    with one another, they shall take Tacham
37    into the house of God and make oath upon it that she, being great in age, that "we did not divide
38    the lands, nor did we hold in common with
39    one another that we should separate from them" —
40    … for they shall divide them with
41    one another according to their proportion.
42    Be safe in the Lord. It was written in the month
43    Mesore 25, the first year (of the indiction).
