[META]
id:       P.KRU 104
label:    P.KRU 104
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     771 CE – 772 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (771 CE – 772 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de donation (dévotion) à un monastère. Maladie. Économe. Proestôs. Pronoètès. Phrontistès. Archôn. Dioikètès. Dikaion.
tm:       86005
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;104
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ⲉⲧ]ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ … ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲓ ⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ συναρπαγή ϩⲓ
r.2    περιγραφή ἀλλά ϩⲛ ⲟⲩνοῦς ⲉϥⲧⲟⲣϩ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩλογισμός ⲛⲁⲧⲡⲱⲛⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩγνώμη ⲛⲁⲧⲣ ϩⲧⲏⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩσυνείδησις ⲉⲙⲛ ⲕⲣⲟ[ϥ]
r.3    ⲛϩⲏⲧⲥ ὡς αὐτός ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲓϯ ⲙⲡⲁⲟⲩⲟⲓ ⲉⲓⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲛνόμος ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲣⲣⲟⲟⲩ κελεύειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϫⲉ ἔξεστι ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲣ ⲡⲉⲧϥⲟⲩⲁϣϥ ϩⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲱϥ ⲡⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϩⲱⲧ ⲁⲓⲟⲩⲁϩⲧ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲧἀκολουθία ⲛνόμος ⲛⲧⲁⲛϫⲓⲥⲟⲟⲩ κελεύειν
r.4    ⲙⲙⲟⲩ ϫⲓⲛ ⲛϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲁⲓϯ ⲡⲁⲟⲩⲟⲓ ⲉ[ⲓ]ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲙⲡδίκαιον
r.5    ⲙⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡἀθλοφόρος ⲛνικοφόρος
r.6    [ⲡ]ἅγιος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ ⲡμάρτυρος ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲙ
r.7    ⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις ⲉⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ϫⲉ
r.8    ἐπειδή ϩⲛ ⲧⲓⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ ἰνδικτίονος ι σὺν θεῷ ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲓἀγαθός ⲡⲁ ⲛⲓϩⲁⲡ ⲛϣⲡⲏⲣⲉ
r.9    ⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲛⲟϭ ⲛϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲁⲓⲣ ϫⲛ ⲧⲏⲩ ⲁⲓϩⲱⲙ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.10   ϩⲱⲥ ϫⲉ ⲉⲓⲛⲁⲕⲱ ⲡⲧⲏⲩ ⲉⲡⲙⲟⲩ ⲁϩⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲙπιστός ϫⲟⲟⲥ
r.11   ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ϫⲉ ⲥⲡⲥⲡ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ ϥⲛⲁⲛⲁ
r.12   ⲛⲁⲕ ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲛⲟⲩνοῦς ⲉϥⲧⲟⲣϩ ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩ[ⲟⲩ]ⲱϣ ⲛϩⲏⲧ
r.13   ⲙπίστις ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ
r.14   ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲙ ⲡλουτήρ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲧϩⲓ ⲑⲏ
r.15   ⲙⲡⲉθυσιαστήριον ⲉϩⲛ ⲛϭⲓϫ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡοἰκονόμος ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲁⲩⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲁⲩⲛⲟⲩϫⲥ ⲉϫⲱⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲩⲛⲟⲩ
r.16   ⲁⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲉⲡⲁⲣⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲱϣ ⲁϩⲟⲙ ⲁϥχαρίζειν
r.17   ⲛⲁⲓ ⲙⲡⲧⲁⲗϭⲟ ⲁⲓⲙⲧⲟⲛ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲛⲟϭ ⲛϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ
r.18   ⲁⲩⲛⲟϭ ⲛⲣⲁϣⲉ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟⲥ ϩⲱⲧ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩ ⲡⲉⲧϣϣⲉ
r.19   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡδίκαιον ⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲣⲁδωρίζειν ⲙⲡⲁσῶμα ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.20   ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲟⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲧⲁϩⲟⲓ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛϥπρεσβεία ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ δέ ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϫⲓⲛ ⲙⲡⲟⲟⲩ
r.21   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲛⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲣ ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲁσῶμα
r.22   εἰ μή τι ⲉⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ
r.23   ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ ⲡⲛⲟϭ ⲙμάρτυρος ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓ ⲧⲡⲟⲟⲩ
r.24   ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲃ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ὀνομάζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.25   ϫⲓⲛ ϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛⲧⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲓⲱ ⲛϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉⲓσυντελεῖν ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲛⲟⲩϩⲙϩⲁⲗ ⲛϣⲱⲡ ϩⲁ ϩⲟⲙⲛⲧ
r.26   ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ⲛϥἐνάγειν ⲙⲛ ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.27   ⲛϥἐπιχειρεῖσθαι ⲉⲧⲁⲓπροσφορά ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲁσῶμα ⲡⲉ
r.28   ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓδωρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϣⲟⲣⲡ μέν ⲛⲛϥὠφελεῖν
r.29   ⲛⲗⲁⲩⲉ ἀλλά ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡϩⲁⲡ ⲙⲙⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.30   παντοκράτωρ ⲡδημιουργός ⲙⲙⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡἅγιος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ ϫⲓ ⲕⲃⲁ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲓ ⲡβῆμα
r.31   ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲁ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲱ
r.32   ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.33   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲟⲛ ⲧⲓπαρακαλεῖν ⲛⲛἐξουσία ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲓχάρτης ⲛⲁⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲉⲛϥϭⲓϫ ⲉⲧⲣϥⲧⲁϩⲟϥ ⲉⲣⲁⲧϥ
r.34   ⲉϥⲥⲙⲟⲛⲧ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲥⲙⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.35   ϫⲉ ⲟⲩἀγάπη ⲛⲧⲉ ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲟⲛ ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲟⲟⲩⲛ
r.36   ⲧⲏⲣⲧⲛ ⲛⲁⲥⲛⲏⲩ ϫⲉ ⲟⲩδίκαιος ⲁⲛ ⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲟⲩⲁ ⲇⲓ
r.37   ⲟⲩδῶρον ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲟⲩⲁ ϫⲟⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲁⲛⲧϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.38   ⲁⲓⲱ ⲛⲁⲥⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲡⲣϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲛⲑⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲧϩⲱϥⲧ ⲛⲛⲉⲣⲏⲧ ⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ οὐδέ ⲙⲡⲣκληροῦν ⲉⲛⲉⲩⲙⲁ ⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲓϩⲱⲃ ⲡⲁⲓ ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲁⲛ ϩⲓⲱⲛ ἀλλά
r.39   ϫⲓⲛ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲡⲉπροφητής ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩδωρίζειν
r.40   ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲣⲡⲉ ⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲓϩⲱⲃ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲙⲏⲛ
r.41   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲥⲙⲛ ⲡⲓδωρεαστικόν δέ ⲉⲣⲉⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲥⲟⲩⲣⲟⲩⲥ ⲡδιάκονος ⲱ ⲙπροεστώς ⲉϫⲛ
r.42   ⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲃⲃⲁ ⲫⲓⲃⲁⲙⲟⲛ
r.43   ⲡⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲏϩ ϩⲙ ⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲛⲟϭ
r.44   ⲙπρονοητής ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛφροντιστής κύριος ⲯⲙⲱ ⲡⲛⲟϭ
r.45   ⲛⲛἄρχων ⲱ ⲛδιοικητής ⲉϫⲛ ⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ
r.46   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲱⲛⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲅⲉⲱⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲡδίκαιον ⲙⲡμοναστήριον ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν
r.47   ⲡⲡσιλιωματογράφος ⲙⲛ ϩⲛⲕⲉⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.48   ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲉⲩⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲁⲩμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟϥ
r.49   πρός ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲛνόμος ⲁⲩⲟϣϥ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ λέξις ⲁⲛⲉⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲧϥϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲛσυνευδοκεῖν ⲁⲛεὐδοκιμεῖν
r.50   ⲁⲛⲧⲁϫⲣⲟⲛ ⲉϫⲱϥ ⲁⲓⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲙ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ

[TRANSLATION]
1     … which is set down for me, without … fear, without violence, without coercion,
2     without circumvention, but with a sound, sober mind and unwavering reasoning and a heedful judgment and a conscience with no deceit
3     in it, since he himself (knows) — toward God I set my course, I obey the laws which our God-given kings have ordained, that it is permitted for each one to do what he wishes with what is his own. I too have followed the order of the law which our (kings) have ordained,
4     namely, from the beginning I set myself to write down the legal right
5     of the holy monastery of the prize-winner, the victory-bearer,
6     the holy Apa Phoibammon the martyr, which is situated in
7     the mountain of Djeme, under the nome of the city of Hermonthis: that
8     since, in this year of the 10th indiction, with God, by the will of God, God the Good, the doer of wonders,
9     brought a great sickness upon me, I despaired, I gave up,
10    so that I was about to give up my spirit unto death; and some faithful men said
11    to me: "Beseech the God of the holy Apa Phoibammon, and he will have mercy
12    on you." I took for myself a sound mind and a willingness of heart,
13    with faith, I sent to the holy place of the holy Apa
14    Phoibammon, I took some (water) from the holy basin which is before
15    the altar, in the holy hands of that steward, they brought it, they poured it upon me, and at that very hour
16    the Lord heard my weeping and my groaning, he gave grace
17    to me for healing, I found rest from the great sickness, and
18    a great joy came to me. I also said: "What is fitting
19    and what is right is that I should donate my body unto
20    him, because my salvation came to pass through his intercessions. So now, by the will of God, from today
21    onward, let no man become lord over my body
22    except the holy monastery of the holy Apa
23    Phoibammon, the great martyr, which is situated upon the holy mountain
24    of Djeme — this (place) which I named beforehand,
25    from the beginning, that I should become a servant to it, ministering to it as
26    a servant who is bought for money.
27    Whoever shall dare to bring suit against the holy place
28    and shall attempt (to interfere) with this offering, which is my body,
29    this which I donated firstly, may he profit
30    nothing, but rather may he stand under the true judgment of God
31    the Almighty, the true Creator, and may the holy Apa Phoibammon exact vengeance from him at the tribunal
32    of God, which is full of fear; and afterward may he become
33    a stranger to the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
34    And again I beseech all authorities, that this charter shall come into their hands, that they establish it,
35    making it firm, so that the Lord may bless them, because
36    it is a love of God. And again, you all know,
37    O my brothers, that it is not just that one should give
38    a gift to another and then say, "I shall take it back."
39    Indeed, O my brothers, do not be like those who break the vows of the Lord, nor allot to yourselves things that have come to be, for this matter has not happened with us, but rather,
40    since Samuel the prophet, those things which were donated
41    unto the temple of the Lord — this matter remains
42    forever. We have drawn up this deed of donation, with Abba Sourous the deacon, who is the superior over
43    the holy place of the holy Apa Phoibammon,
44    this (place) which lies in the mountain of Djeme; and with the great
45    administrator and overseer, the lord Psmo, the great
46    ruler and dioiketes over the fortress of Djeme.
47    I, Petronios son of Georgios, drew up the legal right of the holy monastery, I besought
48    the document-writer and some other
49    trustworthy and faithful witnesses to bear witness to it
50    according to the force of the laws, they read it to us; with care I learned its force, we consented, we approved, we confirmed it; I released it by the will of God.
