[META]
id:       P.KRU 16
label:    P.KRU 16
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theben
genre:    documents
date:     735 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theben (735 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Contrat de vente d’une maison. Femme. Lashanés. Prêt. Taxes. Textiles. Héritage. Protocole bilingue grec-arabe
tm:       85919
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;16
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ϩⲛ ⲡⲣⲁⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.2    ϩⲛ ⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲥⲟⲩ ⲙⲛⲧⲥⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥ ⲛϩⲁⲑⲱⲣ
r.3    ϩⲛ ⲧⲉⲣⲟⲙⲡⲉ ⲧⲁⲓ τέταρτος ⲛⲛⲁϩⲣⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲥⲟⲩⲁⲓ ⲛⲗⲁϣⲛⲏⲩ ⲛⲡⲉⲛκάστρον ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲉⲧⲱⲙ
r.4    ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ϩⲛ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις
r.5    ⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ χαίρειν ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲱⲣⲕ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲧⲉτριάς ⲛὁμοούσιος ⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ
r.6    ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲓαἰτεῖν ⲉⲓⲥⲟⲡⲥ ⲛⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁμαρτυρίζειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲛⲡⲓⲧⲛ πρός ⲧⲁαἴτησις ⲧⲱⲓ
r.7    ⲉⲓⲧⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲏⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.8    ⲛⲫⲉⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ϩⲛ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ϩⲱϥ ϩⲁ ⲡⲓνομός ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ ⲉⲓⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲉπρόσωπον ⲛⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ϩⲣⲁⲭⲏⲗ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲁⲁⲧ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲣⲟϥ
r.9    ⲁⲕⲛ ϩⲉⲛἀσφάλεια ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲉⲣⲉϩⲣⲁⲭⲏⲗ ⲧⲁⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ χρεωστεῖν ⲛⲏⲕ ⲛϣⲙⲟⲩⲛ ⲛτριμήσιον ⲛⲡⲉⲓϭⲙ ϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲥⲁⲧϥ ⲁⲛπαρακαλεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲛⲟϭ
r.10   ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲁⲕϣⲟⲡ ⲧⲁπαράκλησις ⲉⲣⲟⲕ
r.11   ⲁⲕⲧⲓ ⲕⲉτριμήσιον ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲉ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲛⲉ ⲁⲓⲛⲁϫϥ ⲉⲡⲁδημόσιον ⲙⲛ ⲟⲩζυγή ⲛκαμίσιον ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϭⲉ
r.12   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲉⲧⲱⲙ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲉⲓⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲉπρόσωπον ⲛϩⲣⲁⲭⲏⲗ ⲧⲁⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉ ⲉⲧⲁⲥⲁⲧ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲟⲡ ⲛⲁⲥ ⲡⲏⲓ
r.13   δέ ⲉϥϩⲓ ⲡϩⲓⲣ ⲛⲛⲣⲟⲙⲟⲩⲇⲉ κατά
r.14   ⲛⲉϥⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲉⲡⲉϥⲧⲟⲩ ⲥⲁ ⲡⲉⲉⲃⲧ ⲡⲁⲛϩⲉ ⲉ … ⲉⲡⲣⲱ ⲛⲁⲩⲑⲉⲛⲧⲏⲥ
r.15   ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ
r.16   ⲛⲣⲙ ⲡϣⲧⲁ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲫⲁⲩⲥⲧⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲉϥⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲉⲡⲉϥⲧⲟⲩ ⲥⲁ ϫⲓⲛ
r.17   ⲡⲕⲁϩ ϣⲁ ⲣⲁⲧⲏⲩ ⲉⲕⲛⲁⲉⲓ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ
r.18   ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲱⲡ ⲛⲕκελεύειν ⲛⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲕⲕⲱⲧ ⲉϫⲱϥ ⲛⲕἀλλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲕⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲕχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲧⲁⲣⲉⲕϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲕⲱ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲉⲡⲏⲓ
r.19   ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲕⲧⲓⲁⲁϥ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲕχαρίζειν
r.20   ἤ καταλλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲕⲧⲓⲁϥ ⲁⲡⲉϣⲕⲁⲣ
r.21   ⲛⲕσυναλλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲛϥϣⲱⲡⲉ
r.22   ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲕἐξουσία ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.23   ⲙⲛ ⲧⲁ ⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲛⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ
r.24   ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ϭⲙ ϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲉⲓ
r.25   ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲓ ϩⲁ ⲡⲏⲓ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ ⲛⲧⲏⲛ
r.26   οὔτε ⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲛ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲛ ϩⲁ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.27   ϫⲉ ⲉⲧⲁⲓⲧⲓⲁϥ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲏⲕ ϩⲁ ⲛδανιστής ⲛⲣⲁⲭⲏⲗ ⲧⲁⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡτριμήσιον ⲛⲧⲁⲕⲧⲓⲁϥ
r.28   ⲙⲛ ⲧζυγή ⲛκαμίσιον ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲛⲁϫⲟϥ ⲉⲡⲁδημόσιον ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ϩⲛ ⲥⲟⲛ ϩⲛ ⲥⲱⲛⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲓ ϩⲛ ϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.29   ⲛⲧⲏⲓ ϩⲛ ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲧⲏⲓ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ
r.30   ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϩⲁ ⲡⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ οὔτε ⲛⲧⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲛτύπος ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲛⲉχριστιανός ⲉⲧⲉ ⲡⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉπνεῦμα ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲛⲥⲉⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛ[ⲥ]ⲉϩⲱⲛ
r.31   ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲛⲥⲉἀπαιτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲩ ϩⲓⲧⲛ
r.32   ⲧϭⲓϫ ⲛⲛἄρχων ⲡⲉⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉ ⲙⲛⲧⲥⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲙπρόστιμον ⲛⲥⲉⲉⲓ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛⲥⲉϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲙⲛ
r.33   ⲡⲉⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.34   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϣⲉⲛⲉⲧⲱⲙ ϯ ⲙⲛ ⲓϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲁϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲓⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲉϥπρόσωπον ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις
r.35   ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲥⲟⲣϫ
r.36   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉἐλάχιστος πρεσβύτερος ⲛⲧἅγιος ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ⲙⲛ ⲙⲟⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲡδιάκονος
r.37   ϯⲛⲟ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.38   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ϩⲏⲗⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος
r.39   ⲕⲟⲙⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.40   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.41   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲉⲣⲏⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲓⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲉπρᾶσις ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit.
2     On this present day, which is the 12th of Hathyr,
3     in this year, the fourth indiction, before Petros and Souai, the lashanes (village-heads) of our fortress (kastron), I, Shenetom
4     son of Joseph, in Djeme under the nome of the city
5     of Hermonthis, greeting. I write, swearing afterwards by the Trinity, consubstantial, the Father and the Son and
6     the Holy Spirit, beseeching, entreating the trustworthy witnesses for me, those who shall testify for me below, according to my request:
7     I declare to you, you Shenoute son
8     of Phoibammon, who are likewise in Djeme under the same nome of Hermonthis, I acting on behalf of John my son of the house, born of my wife Rachel, since she made me lord over it (the property),
9     you have made me securities for me — that Rachel my wife owes you eight trimesia, which I had no power to find. We besought you and the great
10    men; you received my entreaty;
11    you gave me another trimesion, which is three solidi (holokottinoi); I have put them toward my public tax and a pair of shirts (kamision). Now therefore
12    I, Shenetom, write, acting on behalf of Rachel my wife, since she made me lord over what belongs to her, the house;
13    now (it) is on the street of the people of Rmoude according to
14    its boundaries, which surround its four sides: the east, the field that … to the door of the masters (authentai);
15    it opens onto it; the south, John; the west,
16    the people of Pshta of Phaustos — these are its boundaries which surround its four sides, from
17    the ground up to the rafters. You shall come in, you,
18    Shenoute, who possess it and shall give orders concerning that house and shall build upon it and shall exchange it and shall give it away and shall make a gift of it, so that you become lord over the house,
19    the whole of that (house); you shall give it away and make a gift (of it)
20    or exchange it; you shall give it for the ration (eshkar);
21    you shall barter it, and it shall belong
22    to your authority and to that of your children
23    and that of your children's children forever, in any time,
24    so that I have no power, I nor child of mine to come
25    against me concerning the house, nor brother of ours,
26    nor sister of ours, nor son of a sister of ours concerning that house at all,
27    because I have given it away to you in exchange for the creditors of Rachel my wife and the trimesion you gave
28    and the pair of shirts that I put toward my public tax. Whoever shall dare among brother or sister of mine, among child
29    of mine, among child of mine, and shall come out
30    against you, you Shenoute, concerning that house — whether you or your children — the first procedure (typos) that shall arise shall be alien to the holy invocation of the Christians, which is the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit; and they shall come in and be bound
31    to the sale and they shall be exacted from them by
32    the hand of the magistrates (archontes), at that time, which is twelve solidi (holokottinoi) as a fine; and they shall come in and be bound to the sale and
33    its security.
34    I, Shenetom, †, together with John my son, acting on his behalf, give my consent (stoichein) to the sale
35    and its security.
36    I, Senouthios, the least, presbyter of Saint Mary, together with Moses the deacon,
37    I am a witness.
38    I, Elias son of the blessed
39    Komos, I am a witness.
40    I, Georgios son of Aaron, I am a witness.
41    I, Jeremias son of the blessed Athanasios, wrote the sale with my hand; I am a witness.
