[META]
id:       P.KRU 59
label:    P.KRU 59
name:     Contract — Theben
genre:    contracts
date:     733 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (733 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf (Ernte) — Flachs — in Form eines Darlehens (Geld) — griechisches Protokoll und Unterschrift
tm:       23206
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;59
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐν ὀνόματι τοῦ πατρὸς καὶ τοῦ υἱοῦ καὶ τοῦ ἁγίου πνεύματος. ἐγράφη μηνὸς Μεσωρὴ ιϛ, ἰνδικτίωνος α
r.2    ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲟⲩⲁⲉⲓ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲡⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲧⲥⲏ ⲉⲧⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲫⲁⲛⲏ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲣⲙ ϫⲏⲙⲉ ἐπειδή ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν [ⲙ]ⲙⲟⲕ ⲁⲕϯ ⲟⲩὁλοκόττινος
r.3    ⲟⲩϭⲁⲥ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲁχρεία ⲉⲧⲣⲁϫⲟ ⲟⲩⲥⲧⲓⲱϩ ⲟⲩϭⲁⲥ ⲙⲙⲁϩⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲡⲁϩⲟⲓ
r.4    ϩⲛ ⲧκατασπορά ⲛα ἰνδικτίωνος σὺν θεῷ καρποῦ βἰνδικτίωνοςⲁⲕϣⲓⲛⲉ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲛⲥⲁ ⲟⲩἀσφαλεία
r.5    ⲉⲡⲉⲕⲱⲣϫ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϯⲣⲁϣⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ϯὁμολογεῖν ⲉⲓχρεωστεῖν ⲛⲁⲕ καθαρῶς
r.6    καί ἀποκρότως ⲛⲟⲩὁλοκόττινος [ⲟⲩ]ϭⲁⲥ ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ γίνεται νοίσματα α 𐅵 μέροςϩⲛ ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛἑτοῖμος ⲉⲧⲣⲁϫⲟ ⲟⲩⲥⲧⲓⲱϩ ⲟⲩⲕⲁⲥ ⲛⲙⲁϩⲉ ⲛⲁⲕ ϩⲛ ⲡⲁϩⲟⲓ
r.7    ⲛⲧⲁϯ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ ⲁϫⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛκαταφρόνησις ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲉ ϣⲁ ⲡκαιρός ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲉⲓϫⲛⲟⲩⲕ ⲉⲕⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲟⲩ
r.8    ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁⲕπληροῦν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲛⲡⲉⲩπάκτον πρός ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲡⲱⲗϭ
r.9    ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛ ⲧⲉⲓ ἐπιτροπή ⲉⲥⲟ ⲛτύπος ⲛἀσφάλεια ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν ⲛϩⲉⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲁⲩμαρτυρεῖσθαι ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲟⲩⲁⲉⲓ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ϯστοιχεῖν
r.10   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲣⲓⲥⲧⲟⲫⲁⲛⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲧⲥⲏⲟⲩ ϩⲁ ⲡνομός
r.11   ⲛⲧπόλις ⲕⲉⲃⲧ ϯⲱ ⲙμάρτυρος
r.12   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲁⲭⲁⲣ[ⲓ]ⲁⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲧⲕ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲓⲣⲏⲩ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.13   διʼ ἐμοῦ Κόμες υἱοῦ τοῦ μακαρίου Ἀβραὰμ ἀπὸ Τσὴ ἐγράφη
r.14   ἀσφάλεια ⲥⲟⲩⲁⲉⲓ ⲡⲣⲙ ⲧⲥⲏ

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. It was written in the month Mesore 16, the 1st indiction.
2     I, Souai son of the blessed Paham, the man of Tse, write to Phane son of Petros, the man of Djeme: Since I besought you and you gave a solidus,
3     a guarantee (?), to me, which I needed to cast a sowing — a guarantee of cattle for you — for it, with my field,
4     in the sowing of the 1st indiction, with God, of the crop of the 2nd indiction, you sought from me an assurance
5     for your security. Now I rejoice, and I acknowledge that I owe you, purely
6     and exactly, one gold solidus, making 1 solidus, half a part (?), by the will of God. I am ready to cast a sowing, a guarantee of cattle for you, with my field,
7     so that I shall give three (measures of?) water to them, without any contempt or negligence, until the (proper) time, that I may not ask you for anything in respect of them,
8     because you have fully paid me their rent according to the way I agreed
9     with you, it being secured for you. I have drawn up this guarantee, it being a type of security, and I besought some trustworthy men, they bore witness to it. I, Souai, who first wrote, I agree.
10    I, Aristophane son of Apa Pnouthios, the man of Tseou, in the nome
11    of the city of Coptos, I give witness.
12    I, Sacharias son of Ioannes, the man of Tk, with our companions, I give witness.
13    Through me, Komes son of the blessed Abraham, from Tse, it was written.
14    Security of Souai the man of Tse.
