[META]
id:       P.KRU 105
label:    P.KRU 105
name:     Contract — Theben (Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     601 CE – 700 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben (Ägypten)
held:     Cairo
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (Ägypten) (601 CE – 700 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schenkung eines Klosters — griechische Unterschrift
tm:       39659
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;105
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ [ϩⲓⲧⲙ]
r.2    ⲡⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲱⲧⲛ κατά ⲡⲉⲓⲧⲉⲥϣⲏ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ
r.3    ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲉⲧⲱ ⲙⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲙⲡτόπος ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲕⲱⲧ ἤ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲟⲣϣⲣ ἤ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡ ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ
r.4    ϩⲛ ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲛⲁⲙⲟϣⲉ ϩⲛ ⲧϩⲟⲧⲉ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ
r.5    ⲙⲡⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲱⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲧⲟϣϥ
r.6    ⲉⲡτόπος ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ ⲛϥδιακονεῖν ϩⲱϥ ⲉⲡϩⲱⲱ[ⲃ]
r.7    ⲛⲧἀγάπη ⲛⲛϩⲏⲕⲉ ϫⲉ ⲉⲛⲉⲗⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ
r.8    ⲛⲧⲁϥτολμᾶν ⲉϥⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲕⲗ …
r.9    ⲡⲉκρῖμα ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲩⲛⲁϯ ⲉⲡλόγος ⲙⲡπρόστιμον
r.10   ⲙⲛ ⲧκαταδίκη ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲉⲛϫⲓⲥⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲛⲣⲱⲟⲩ ⲙⲙⲁⲓⲡⲉⲭⲣⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ
r.11   ὁρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲥⲟⲟⲩ ⲛὀγγία ⲛⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ
r.12   ⲡⲉπρόστιμον ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ ⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲥⲏϩ
r.13   ⲉⲡⲓχάρτης ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ ⲧⲛϩⲏ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲁⲧⲉⲧⲛϣⲱⲡ ϩⲓⲥⲉ
r.14   ⲉⲡτόπος ϫⲓⲛ ⲛⲧⲉϩⲟⲩⲓⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ ϫⲓⲛⲉϥⲱ ⲛἔρημος
r.15   ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲡⲉⲓⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲧⲟϣϥ ⲉⲡτόπος ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲁ ⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓ
r.16   ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ σῶμα ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥἄρχειν ⲉϫⲛ ⲡⲙⲁ κατά ⲑⲉ
r.17   ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲣϣⲟⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲏ ϫⲉ ⲉⲛⲉⲗⲁⲩⲉ ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲛἐνάγειν
r.18   ⲛⲁϥ ϩⲛ δικαστήριον ἤ ⲙⲡⲉⲙⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛϯ ϩⲁⲡ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ
r.19   ϫⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲥδοκεῖν ⲛⲁⲛ ⲛϯϩⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲥⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲛ ⲁⲛⲥⲙⲓⲛ ⲡⲉⲓχάρτης
r.20   ⲡⲉⲓ ⲉⲧⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲱⲣϫ ⲉϥβεβαιοῦν ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉϥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲉϥⲱ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.21   ⲙⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉϥⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲙⲙⲱ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ἀρχή ⲛⲓⲙ
r.22   ϩⲓ ἐξουσία ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲩϫⲛⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲛὁμολογεῖν ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲡⲧⲓⲙⲉ ⲧⲏⲣϥ
r.23   ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲛεὐλαβέστατος ⲙπρεσβύτερος ⲙⲛ ⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡτιμιώτατος ⲛⲗⲁϣⲁⲛⲉ
r.24   ⲧⲛστοιχεῖν ⲉⲡⲉⲓχάρτης
r.25   ⲁⲉⲓⲣⲏⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲡἀρχιπρεσβύτερος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉⲓ
r.26   ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲙⲩⲑⲓⲁ πρεσβύτερος ⲛⲛἀπόστολος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.27   ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲕⲟⲥ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ πρεσβύτερος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.28   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ ⲛⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ πρεσβύτερος ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.29   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ πρεσβύτερος ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϫⲉ ⲉϥνοεῖν ⲁⲛ ⲉⲁϥⲃⲱⲕ ϣⲟⲙⲛⲧ ⲛσταυρός ⲛⲧⲉϥϭⲓϫ
r.30   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ ⲛⲁⲛⲇⲣⲉⲁⲥ πρεσβύτερος ⲛⲧἅγιος ⲙⲁⲣⲓⲁ ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ κατά ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲱⲧⲙ
r.31   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲗⲉⲗⲟⲩ πρεσβύτερος ⲧⲟⲓστοιχεῖν μοι ⲉⲛⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.32   ⲁⲡⲁ ⲃⲓⲕⲧⲟⲣ ⲙⲡⲟⲩⲱϩⲉ πρεσβύτερος ⲧⲟⲓστοιχεῖν μοι ⲉⲛⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.33   ⲉⲗⲓⲥⲁⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲁⲧⲣⲏ ⲡδιάκονος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.34   ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲙⲱⲩⲥⲏⲥ ⲡδιάκονος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲉⲓϣⲁϫⲉ
r.35   ⲡⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲓⲥⲁⲕ διάκονοςστοιχεῖ μοι
r.36   ⲇⲁⲩⲉⲓⲇ ⲓⲉⲍⲉⲕⲓⲏⲗ ⲡδιάκονος στοιχεῖ μοι ⲉⲛⲉϣⲁϫⲉ
r.37   ⲓⲉⲍⲉⲕⲓⲏⲗ ⲡⲁⲭⲱⲙ ϯⲱ ⲙμάρτυρος
r.38   ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ ⲛⲉⲛⲱⲭ ϯⲱ [ⲙ]μάρτυρος
r.39   ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲟⲥ ⲓⲉⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁ μαρτυρεῖν ⲕⲁⲙⲉ ⲙⲡⲁⲃⲱⲥ μαρτυρεῖν
r.40   διʼ ἐμοῦ; Δακιανὸς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῷ καὶ
r.41   ⲅⲉⲧⲱⲛ ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲩⲥ ⲛⲁⲕⲉ μαρτυρεῖν
r.42   ⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲛⲓⲱⲥⲏⲫ μαρτυρεῖν
r.43   Δακιανὸς γραμματεὺς ὁ καὶ σωματίσας αἰτηθεὶς ἔγραψα [ὑπὲρ] Παπνουθι πρωτοκωμήτου γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος,
r.44   γράψαντος δὲ ἰδίᾳ χειρὶ τρεῖς σταυρούς

[TRANSLATION]
1     … those who come after you [through]
2     the will of God and through your will, according to this decree, concerning
3     that you are the masters of the whole place of Apa Phoibammon, that you may dwell in it and build or demolish or take in people to yourselves within it
4     in every (way), each one walking in the fear of God
5     for the whole time of your life and that which you will appoint
6     to the place, and after that he is to serve likewise for the wor[k]
7     of the love(-feast) of the poor, so that no man have the power
8     to dare to do … (anything) against it.
9     The judgment of God — they shall pay the account of the fine
10    and the penalty which our wise fathers of the people of Christ
11    appointed, namely six ounces of gold; and after
12    the fine, he is to come in and to be bound to everything written
13    in this document; because we trust in it, you who took the toil
14    upon the place from the beginning, when you established it from being a desert.
15    Therefore this which you will appoint to the place after your departure
16    out of the body shall be (valid), it ruling over the place according to the manner
17    that we wrote above, that no man have the power to bring suit
18    against it in a court or before judgment-giving places, because
19    it seemed good to us in this way, and it pleased us, and we drew up this document,
20    this one which shall be, being secure, confirming, and having power, being lord
21    in every place where it shall be produced through any authority
22    or power; and we were asked and agreed, we the whole village,
23    through the most reverend presbyters and Papnoute the most honored headman (lashane),
24    that we consent to this document.
25    I, Jeremias the archpresbyter, consent to me these my words.
26    Joseph Mythia, presbyter of the Apostles, consents to me these my words.
27    Kyrikos (son of) Joseph, presbyter, consents to me these my words.
28    I, Joseph (son of) Abraham, presbyter of Apa Victor, consent to these my words.
29    I, Daniel, presbyter, wrote on his behalf because he does not understand (letters), he having made three crosses with his hand.
30    I, Daniel (son of) Andreas, presbyter of (the church of) Saint Mary, consent to these my words according to the manner I heard.
31    I, Abraham Lelou, presbyter, consent to me these words.
32    Apa Victor (son of) Pouohe, presbyter, consent to me these words.
33    Elisaios Natre, the deacon, consents to me these words.
34    Petros (son of) Moses, the deacon, consents to me these words.
35    Papnoute (son of) Isak, deacon, consents to me.
36    David (son of) Ezekiel, the deacon, consents to me these words.
37    Ezekiel (son of) Pachom, I bear witness.
38    Abraham (son of) Enoch, I bear [witness].
39    Petros Ieremia bears witness. And I, Mpabos, bear witness.
40    Through me; I, Dakianos, wrote on his behalf and
41    Geton (son of) Iohannes Nake bears witness.
42    Iohannes (son of) Joseph bears witness.
43    I, Dakianos, scribe and also recorder, having been asked, wrote [on behalf of] Papnouthis the village-headman who does not know letters,
44    he having written with his own hand three crosses.
