[META]
id:       P.KRU 13
label:    P.KRU 13
name:     Contract — Theben (Ägypten)
genre:    contracts
date:     733 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben (Ägypten)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (Ägypten) (733 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus — Protokoll (griechisch)
tm:       23182
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;13
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐν ὀνόματι τῆς ἁγίας καὶ ζωοποιοῦ ὁμοουσίου τριάδος πατρὸς
r.2    καὶ υἱοῦ καὶ ἁγίας πνεύματος. ἐγράφη μηνὸς Χοιὰχ δ, ἰνδικτίωνος δευτέρας
r.3    δεσπότου ἡμῶν Ἀργαμα υἱοῦ Ἐρδ εὐκλεεστάτου ἀμείρα Ἑρμόνθεως πόλεως
r.4    κάστρου Μεμνονίων ϫⲏⲙⲏ ⲭⲁⲏⲗ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲯⲙⲱ διοικητῄς
r.5    ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲁⲣⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲇⲏⲙⲏⲧⲣⲓⲟⲩ ⲡθεοφιλέστατος
r.6    ⲛπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉπροεστῶς ⲛⲡἀθλοφόρος
r.7    ⲛστεφανοφόρος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἀγωνιστής ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡκαλλίνικος
r.8    ⲛⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲙⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲏ
r.9    ⲛⲡνομός ⲛπόλις ⲣⲙⲱⲛⲧ ⲉⲓⲧⲓ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛⲟⲩὑπογραφή ⲛⲟⲩὑπογραφεύς ⲧⲣⲉϥὑπογράφειν ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲙⲛ ϩⲉⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲩⲉⲛϩⲟⲧ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲩⲉⲣ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ϩⲁ ⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις ⲧⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ
r.10   ⲛⲁⲧπαραβαίνειν ⲙⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲧπαρασαλεύειν ⲛⲙⲟⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.11   ϩⲓⲧⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛνόμος μᾶλλον ⲛⲥϣⲱⲛⲉ ⲉⲥⲧⲁϫⲣⲏⲩ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲙⲓⲛ ⲛⲙⲟⲓ ⲙⲛⲧⲁπροθυμία ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ
r.12   ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲣⲙ κάστρον ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ϫⲏⲙⲏ ⲛⲡνομός ⲛⲧπόλις
r.13   ⲣⲙⲟⲛⲧ χαίρειν ϫⲉ ⲧⲓὁμολογεῖν ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲁⲣⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡμοναχός
r.14   ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲇⲏⲙⲏⲧⲣⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ⲁ[ⲣⲱⲛ]
r.15   ⲡⲉⲧϣⲱⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓσαφηνίζειν ⲛⲙⲟϥ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ …
r.16   ⲡⲉ ⲛἔγγραφον ⲛπρᾶσις ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ ⲉⲧβεβαιοῦν ⲉⲧϣⲏϣ
r.17   ϩⲛ ⲟⲩϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ ⲧⲓὁμολογία ⲉⲓⲧⲉⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ
r.18   ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲡⲣⲁϥⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲡⲉⲓⲥⲛⲁⲩ
r.19   ⲛⲏⲓ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲧⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲁⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲡⲏϣⲉ ⲁⲣⲟⲛ ϩⲱⲛ
r.20   ⲉⲧⲕⲏ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲛ ⲡκάστρον ϫⲏⲙⲏ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲧⲉⲓⲛⲁⲟⲩⲛϩⲟⲩ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ …
r.21   ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϩⲓⲧⲑⲏⲣϩⲓⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲁⲛⲏⲑ ⲡⲣⲥ ⲗⲁ[ⲥⲁⲛ] ⲡⲁⲙⲁⲛ ⲡⲉⲙⲉⲛ[ⲧ] …
r.22   ϩⲁⲓ ϫⲛⲁϩ ⲡϩⲏⲧ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲛⲡϣⲟⲩⲙⲁⲣⲁ ⲡⲉⲉⲃⲏⲧⲉ ⲧϩⲓ[ⲣϩⲓⲣⲉ]
r.23   ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛⲉⲩⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲩⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛⲡⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲉ ⲛμέρος
r.24   ⲛⲧⲁⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲡⲉⲓϣⲁⲧⲉ ⲛⲡⲉⲥⲧⲓⲛⲉ ⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲁϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲁⲡἅγιος
r.25   ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲛⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϫⲏⲙⲏ ⲛπροσφορά ϩⲁ ⲧⲉϥταλαίπορος
r.26   ⲛψυχή ϫⲉ ⲉⲛⲉⲩκατακρίνειν ⲛⲙⲟⲓ ϩⲓ … [ⲡβῆμα] [ⲙ]ⲡⲉⲭⲣⲓⲥⲧⲟⲥ ϫⲉ ⲉⲛⲉⲡμάρτυρος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ [ϭⲛ] ⲁⲣⲓⲕⲉ ⲁⲣⲟⲓ ϫⲉ …
r.27   ⲛⲁ ⲛⲉϥπροσφορά ϫⲉ ϩⲉⲛⲥⲱⲧⲉ ⲛψυχή ϫⲉ
r.28   ⲁⲓϫⲟⲟⲩ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ καλῶς ἤ κακῶς ὥστε οὖν ⲛⲧⲟⲕ
r.29   ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲉⲕⲛⲁⲣ ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲛμέρος
r.30   ⲛⲉⲓⲛⲏⲓ ⲛⲡⲉⲓϣⲁⲧⲉ ϫⲉ ⲁⲕϯ ⲧⲟⲩτιμή ⲛⲁⲓ ⲛϭⲓϫ [ⲉ]ϭⲓϫ ⲛⲟⲩⲃ
r.31   κατά ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲡⲱⲗⲕ ⲛⲁⲙⲙⲁⲕ ϫ[ⲉ ⲟⲩ] ὁλοκόττινος [ⲛⲛⲟⲩ]ⲃ
r.32   γίνεται νόμισμα α ⲁⲓⲛⲟϫⲥ ⲉⲧⲉ τράπεζα ⲛⲛϩⲏⲕⲉ ⲛ … [ⲧ]χρεία ⲛⲡτόπος ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲉⲩἀνάπαυσις ⲛⲡμακάριος
r.33   ⲡⲉⲓϣⲁⲧⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲉⲕⲛⲁⲣ
r.34   ϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲛμέρος ⲛⲏⲛⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ δηλοῦν ⲛⲛⲉⲩⲧⲟϣ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲧⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲅδιοικεῖν
r.35   ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲅοἰκονομεῖν ⲛⲙ[ⲟⲟⲩ] ⲛⲅⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲁϫⲟ[ⲟⲩ]
r.36   ⲛⲅⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ ⲛⲅἀλλάσσειν ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲅⲕⲁⲁⲩ
r.37   ⲛⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲕϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲅⲧⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲡⲉⲓϣⲕⲁⲣ ⲛⲅχαρίζειν ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲅχρῆσθαι ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲛ νομή ⲛⲓⲙ ϫⲉ ⲉⲛⲉ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.38   ⲛⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲉϣ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲛϥⲉⲓ ⲁⲃⲟⲗ ⲁⲣⲟⲕ ϩⲁ μέρος
r.39   ⲛⲏⲓ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ⲥⲟⲛ οὔτε ⲥⲱⲛ[ⲉ] [οὔτε]
r.40   ϣⲛ ⲟⲩⲁ οὔτε ϣⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ ϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϣⲙⲙⲟ
r.41   οὔτε ⲣⲙⲙⲓⲛⲏⲓ οὔτε ϭⲉⲟⲩⲁ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ κατά ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲙⲟⲧ
r.42   ⲛπρόφασις οὐδέ ⲛϣ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ἐνάγειν ⲛⲙⲙⲁⲕ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲛ
r.43   δικαστήριον ἤ ⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲛδικαστήριον οὔτε ϩⲛ πόλις οὔτε
r.44   ϩⲛ ⲧⲟϣ ἤ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛτύπος ⲉϥϩⲁ ⲉⲟⲟⲩ ἤ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛτάξις
r.45   ⲉⲥϭⲙϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲥχoρεύειν ἅπαξ ἁπλῶς ⲉⲣϣⲁⲛⲟⲩ[ⲁ]
r.46   δέ τολμᾶν κἄν ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ κἄν ϣⲁ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛϣⲟⲣⲡ
r.47   μέν ⲛⲛⲉⲡⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϯ ϩⲏⲩ ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲡϣⲟⲣⲡ τύπος
r.48   μέν ⲉϥⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ϣⲙⲙⲟ ⲉⲡⲁⲛⲁϣ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.49   ⲛⲉχριστιανός ⲉⲧⲟⲩϣⲙϣⲉ ⲛⲁϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ[ϥ]ϫⲓ
r.50   ⲧμερίς ⲛⲁⲛⲁⲛⲓⲁⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲥⲁⲡⲁⲣⲁ ⲧϥⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ ⲙⲛⲥⲱ[ⲥ] [ⲛϥ]ϯ ⲡλόγος ⲛπρόστιμον ⲙⲛⲧⲥⲛ[ⲟ]ⲟⲩⲥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος
r.51   ⲛⲟⲩⲃ ⲛⲥⲉπαρασκευάζειν ⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲉϥὑπόστασις ⲛⲙⲓⲛ ⲛⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲧϭⲓϫ ⲛⲛἀμιρᾶ ⲉⲧⲧⲁⲉⲓⲏⲩ
r.52   ⲙⲛⲥⲁ ⲧκαταβολή ⲛⲡⲉπρόστιμον ⲛⲥⲉπαρασκευάζειν
r.53   ⲙⲟϥ ⲛϥϩⲱⲛ ⲉⲡⲉⲓἔγγραφον ⲛπρᾶσις ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧϥ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛⲧⲟⲕ ϩⲁⲣⲱⲛ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ χωρίς ⲗⲁⲁⲩ
r.54   ⲛⲕⲣⲟϥ ϩⲓ ϩⲟⲧⲉ ϩⲓ ϫⲛϭⲟⲛⲥ ϩⲓ ἁπάτη ϩⲓ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛσυναρπαγή ⲁⲩⲱ παραγραφή ⲙⲛ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛἀνάγκη ⲕⲏ ⲛⲁⲓ
r.55   ϩⲣⲁⲓ ϥⲟⲣϫ ⲥⲱ ⲛϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ϩⲛ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν
r.56   ⲛⲙⲟⲥ ⲛϩⲏⲧⲥ ⲛⲥⲉϫⲛⲟⲩⲓ ⲧⲁὁμολογεῖν ⲁⲩⲁϣⲥ
r.57   ⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥⲁⲧⲙⲉⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓⲧⲥ ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲁⲥⲡⲉ ⲛⲟⲩⲱⲧ
r.58   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲧⲉⲣⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲡⲉⲥⲧⲓⲛⲟⲥ
r.59   ⲡⲣⲙ ⲡκάστρον ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις
r.60   πρός ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲩⲥⲙⲛⲧⲥ ⲉⲧ ⲉⲡⲣⲁϥⲧⲟⲟⲩ ⲡⲉ
r.61   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲓⲱⲁⲛⲛⲁⲕⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲓⲱϩⲁⲛⲛⲏⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.62   ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲓⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.63   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲛⲱϩⲉ ⲡⲉπρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἡγούμενος ⲛⲧἐκκλησία ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ
r.64   ⲛϫⲏⲙⲉ ϯⲱ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.65   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲁⲙⲟⲩⲏⲗ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲉⲛⲱⲭ
r.66   ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡἡγούμενος
r.67   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲉπροεστῶς ⲙⲡἅγιος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲛⲡⲧⲟⲟⲩ
r.68   ⲛⲧϫⲏⲙⲉ
r.69   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲡμακάριος ⲁⲡⲁ ⲇⲓⲟⲥ ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.70   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲧϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν
r.71   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲭⲙⲧⲥⲛⲏⲩ ⲡἐλάχιστος πρεσβύτερος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡἠγούμενος ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲛⲥⲉⲛⲟⲩⲑⲓⲟⲥ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ
r.72   ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ πρός ⲧαἴτησις ⲛⲕⲁⲣⲁⲕⲟⲥ

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the name of the holy and life-giving consubstantial Trinity, the Father
2     and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Written in the month Choiak 4, in the second indiction,
3     of our lord Argama son of Erd, the most glorious amir of the city of Hermonthis,
4     of the fortress of Memnonia (Djeme). Chael son of Psmo, administrator.
5     I, Karakos son of Demetrios, the most God-loving
6     presbyter and superior (hegoumenos) and provost of the prize-winner
7     and crown-bearer and contestant and gloriously-triumphant
8     among the saints, Apa Phoibammon of the mountain of Djeme
9     of the nome of the city of Hermonthis, and after, with a subscription of a subscriber to subscribe for me and with witnesses who are trustworthy to bear witness to this sale which is written,
10    not to transgress it and not to alter it
11    by means of law(s), but rather that it be made firm according to my own request and my readiness; I write to you, Aron son of
12    Senouthios, the man of the same fortress of Djeme of the nome of the city of
13    Hermonthis, greeting: that I acknowledge, I Karakos the monk,
14    son of the blessed Demetrios, the one writing first, to you, you A[ron]
15    the buyer and the one to whom I am explaining the above …
16    is the written deed of sale which is written, confirmed and binding
17    in one matter through it. I acknowledge, while giving it to you
18    out (from me), to you, Aron son of Senouthios, the fourth part of these two,
19    these houses which now belong to me, the share of Apa Termouthios, the share which has come to us
20    here in the fortress of Djeme, these which I shall reveal …
21    below, on the river, of Sane, southward, the lashane (?), to the south, westward …
22    on … the front, to the north, of Aron son of Shoumara, the eastern (?), the wall
23    inward; and these are their boundaries, surrounding the two houses, which are the portion
24    of the children of the blessed, this house, of Pestine; they are given over to Saint
25    Apa Phoibammon of the mountain of Djeme as an offering for his wretched
26    soul, that they may not condemn me at … [the tribunal] of Christ, that the holy martyrs may [not] blame me, that …
27    those of his offerings, that they are ransoms of (the) soul, that
28    I gave them out well or ill. Wherefore then you,
29    Aron son of Senouthios, you shall be lord over the shares
30    of these houses of Pestine, because you gave me their price, hand to hand, of gold,
31    according to the manner that I sold to you, name[ly one] holokottinos [of gol]d
32    which makes one nomisma; I cast it onto the bank of the poor … the need of the holy place, for the repose of the blessed
33    Pestine; and you, Aron son of Senouthios, you shall be
34    lord over the shares of those houses, which I revealed above, their boundaries; through you, you Aron Senouthios, you shall administer
35    them and manage th[em] and circulate them (?)
36    and dwell in them and exchange them and leave them
37    to your children with your children, and give them to this … and donate them and use them in any usage; because no
38    man shall be able to come out against you concerning the share
39    of those houses, neither I nor brother nor siste[r, nor]
40    son of one nor son of two nor relative of relative nor stranger
41    nor man of the house nor anyone else, against me in any manner
42    of pretext, nor shall (anyone) be able to bring suit against you, in
43    a court or outside a court, neither in a city nor
44    in a district, or any kind of place that is in glory, or any rank
45    that has power and exercises power, once and simply. But if [any]one
46    dare, whether now or at any time, first
47    he shall benefit nothing thereof, but first that kind
48    shall be a stranger to the holy creed
49    of Christians who serve it, and h[e] shall pay
50    the share of Ananias and Saphira his wife, and afterwards [he shall] pay the account of the fine of twelve holokottina
51    of gold, and they shall exact it from his own substance, from him, by the hand of the honored amirs;
52    after the payment of the fine they shall exact
53    it, and it shall be bound to this written deed of sale, this one which I drew up, secure for you, you Aron Senouthios, apart from any
54    fraud or fear or violence or deceit or any seizure and obrogation and any compulsion laid upon me
55    here. It being firm, I am lord (over it) in any place where they shall produce
56    it; and they questioned me, and I acknowledged; they read it aloud
57    to me, I heard it, I wrote it in this single dialect.
58    I, Patermoute son of the blessed Pestinos,
59    man of the fortress of Djeme, consent to this sale
60    according to the manner that it was drawn up, that it is the fourth part.
61    I, Iohannake son of Iohannes, wrote
62    on his behalf, and I bear witness.
63    I, Nohe, the presbyter and superior of the holy church
64    of Djeme, bear witness.
65    I, Samuel son of the blessed Enoch,
66    bear witness according to the request of Kyriakos the superior
67    and provost of Saint Apa Phoibammon of the mountain
68    of Djeme.
69    I, Senouthios son of the blessed Apa Dios, bear witness.
70    I, Kyriakos, the one writing first, consent.
71    I, Chmtsneu the least presbyter and superior, son of Senouthios, wrote
72    with my hand according to the request of Karakos.
