[META]
id:       P.KRU 28
label:    P.KRU 28
name:     Contract — Theben
genre:    contracts
date:     735 CE – 763 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theben
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Theben (735 CE – 763 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus — Unterschrift (griechisch)
tm:       23190
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.kru;;28
lat:      27.5
lon:      32.5

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ⲁⲣ][ⲥⲉⲛⲓⲟ]ⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲧϣⲉⲣⲕⲁϩ ⲛϣ[ⲏⲣⲉ] …
r.2    ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ὀνομάζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ϫⲓⲛ ⲙⲡⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲟⲟ[ⲩ] …
r.3    ⲧⲁⲓⲏ ϩⲙ ⲙⲛⲧϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛδίκαιον ⲉⲩϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲛνόμος …
r.4    ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ϣⲁ ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ ⲉⲩⲛⲏⲩ ⲙ[ⲛⲛⲥⲱⲓ]
r.5    ⲙⲡⲁμέρος ⲧⲏⲣϥ ⲉⲧἀνήκειν ⲉⲣⲟⲓ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲉ[ⲧⲕⲏ]
r.6    ϩⲙ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϣⲁⲧⲛ ⲙⲏⲧ ⲛϭⲁⲥⲧ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲡⲉϥⲕⲉτέταρτον
r.7    ⲙⲛ ⲙⲏⲧ ⲛϭⲁⲥⲧ ἀνήκειν ⲉⲡⲉⲧⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ ⲛⲧⲙⲁ …
r.8    ⲧϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲯⲁⲛ πρός ⲧδύναμις ⲛⲧτέλειος πρᾶσις ⲛⲧⲁ …
r.9    ἐγγράφως ἔτι ⲉⲩⲟⲛϩ ⲧⲡⲁϣⲉ δέ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲛ[ⲧⲁ]ⲩⲉⲓ
r.10   ⲉϫⲱⲓ ϩⲁ ⲧⲁμακάριος ⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲑⲏⲥⲁⲩⲣⲓⲁ ⲉⲩⲕⲏ δέ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲉⲓϩⲉ πρός ⲛⲉⲩθέσις
r.11   ⲛἀρχαῖος οὕτω περιέχουσι ⲡⲣⲏⲥ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲁⲕⲟⲥ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲉ …
r.12   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉϥκληρονόμος ⲡϩⲏⲧ ⲡϩⲓⲣ δημόσιος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡ[ⲣⲟ]
r.13   ⲟⲩⲏⲛ ⲉⲣⲟϥ ⲡⲉⲓⲉⲓⲃⲧ ⲕⲩⲣⲓⲗⲗⲟⲥ ⲥⲟⲗⲟⲙⲱⲛ ⲡⲉⲙⲛⲧ ⲁⲃⲣⲁⲁⲙ
r.14   ⲛⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲉ ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲙⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲛⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ ἐκ τετρα[γώ]νου ⲧτιμή δέ ⲛⲧⲁⲥⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲛ ⲉⲁⲛσυμφωνεῖν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲣⲏⲩ
r.15   ϩⲁ ⲡⲁμέρος ⲧⲏⲣϥ ϩⲛ ⲙⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ⲡⲉ ⲟⲩὁλοκόττινος ⲙⲛ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲛτριμήσιον
r.16   ⲙⲡϣⲓ ⲙⲡκάστρον χρυσοῦ νόμισμα α 𐅷 ⲧⲉⲓτιμή οὖν ⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ τάσσειν ⲙⲙ[ⲟⲥ]
r.17   ⲁⲓϫⲓⲧⲥ ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲛϭⲓϫ ⲉϭⲓϫ ⲛϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲙⲡⲉⲧⲛⲏⲓ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲩⲥ ⲉⲥϣ[ⲏⲩ]
r.18   ⲉⲥⲙⲉϩ ⲙⲡϣⲓ ⲙⲡⲉⲓκάστρον ⲙⲡⲉϭⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛδίκαιον ϣⲱϫⲡ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲉⲡ[ⲧⲏ]ⲣϥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲉⲧⲙⲙⲁⲩ ϩⲁ ϭⲉⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛδιαδοχή ϩⲓ ἐπιμονή
r.19   ἐγγράφως ἤἀγράφως ὥστε ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ϫⲓⲛ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲛⲧⲱⲧⲛ ⲁⲣⲥⲉⲛⲓⲟⲥ
r.20   ⲙⲛ ⲧϣⲉⲣⲕⲁϩ ⲛⲉⲧϣⲱⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓϣⲣⲡ ὀνομάζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲁϩ
r.21   ⲛⲥⲟⲡ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲛⲁⲉⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛⲁⲛ … ⲉⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛκυριεύειν ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲣ ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲙⲡⲁμέρος ⲧⲏⲣϥ ϩⲙ ⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲛⲧⲁⲓσαφηνίζειν ⲛⲛ[ⲉⲩ]ⲧⲟϣ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲉϫⲡⲟϥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉ … ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉοἰκονομεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉφιλοκαλεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉⲕⲟⲧϥ ⲉⲟⲩⲱϩ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ ⲉⲧⲁⲁϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.22   ⲉἀποχαρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉδωρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉπαραχωρεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ⲉἀλάσσειν ⲙⲙⲟϥ
r.23   ⲉⲕⲁⲁϥ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲛϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉϣⲟϫⲡϥ ⲛⲛⲉⲧⲛκληρονόμος ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ⲉπράττεσθαι ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ϩⲛ ϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲛ νομή ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲓ ⲙⲛⲧϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ
r.24   ⲛⲓⲙ ϩⲓ κατοχή ⲛϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ κυρίως καὶ ἀνεπικωλύτως ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ϫⲉ
r.25   ⲁⲓϫⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓπληροῦν ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲛⲧτέλειος τιμή εἰς πλήρης
r.26   οὐκ ἔξεστι δέ ⲛⲁⲓ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲓⲟⲥ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁϥϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ ⲉⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.27   ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ ϩⲁ ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲉⲩϫⲓ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲡⲁⲛϩ ⲙⲛ ⲡπύργος ⲛⲧⲁⲓδηλοῦν ⲛⲛⲉⲩⲧⲟϣ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ οὔτε ⲁⲛⲟⲕ οὔτε ϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲉⲡⲱⲓ ⲡⲉ ϩⲓ κληρονόμος οὔτε ϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϫⲱϩ ⲛϫⲱϩ οὔτε ϣⲙⲙⲟ οὔτε ⲣⲙ ⲛⲏⲓ οὔτε
r.28   ⲕⲉⲟⲩⲁ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ κατά ⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲛⲥⲙⲟⲧ ἤ πρόφασις οὔτε ⲛⲛⲉⲓⲉϣ ϭⲙϭⲟⲙ
r.29   ⲉἐνάγειν ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ϩⲛ δικαστήριον ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲛδικαστήριον οὔτε ϩⲛ
r.30   πόλις ἤ ⲙⲡⲃⲟⲗ ⲛⲧⲟϣ ⲉⲧⲃⲉ ⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις ἤ μέρος ⲛⲧⲁⲥ ⲉⲡⲧⲏⲣϥ
r.31   εἰ δέ ⲉⲥϣⲁⲛϣⲱⲡⲉ ὅπερ μὴ εἴη ⲛⲧⲉⲟⲩⲁ τολμᾶν κἄν ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ
r.32   ἤ ϩⲓⲧⲛ ⲕⲉⲟⲩⲁ ⲉϥⲉⲓⲣⲉ ⲙⲡⲁπρόσωπον ⲉⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ὡς εἶκος ⲛϥⲟⲩⲱϣ
r.33   ⲉἐνάγειν πρῶτον μέν ⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉⲧⲛⲁϩⲓ ⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ ⲉϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲧⲉⲓⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ϩⲁ ⲧἐπιτιμία ⲛⲧⲁⲛνόμος ⲛδίκαιος ὀρίζειν ⲙⲙⲟⲟⲩ
r.34   κατά ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲁτολμᾶν ⲉπαραβαίνειν ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲥ ⲛϥϯ ⲉⲡλόγος ⲙⲡπρόστιμον ⲙⲛⲧⲥⲛⲟⲟⲩⲥ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲛⲥⲉἀπαιτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ ⲧⲉϥ ὑπόστασις ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟϥ καὶ εἴθ᾽οὕτως ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲉⲓπρᾶσις ϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲥⲟⲣϫ ⲁⲩⲱ
r.35   ⲉⲟⲩⲛⲧⲁⲥ ⲧⲉⲥϭⲟⲙ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ ⲛνόμος ⲧⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲥⲙⲛⲧⲥ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ
r.36   ⲙⲛ ⲛⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛⲛⲥⲱⲧⲛ ⲁⲓⲟϣⲥ ⲁⲥⲣ ⲁⲛⲁⲓ πρός ⲑⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓ ἐπιτρέπειν ⲁⲓὑπογράφειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ⲙⲙⲓⲛ ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓἀξιοῦν δέ ⲛϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.37   ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲁⲩμαρτυρίζειν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲕⲁⲁⲥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ
r.38   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲡⲁⲕⲟⲩϫⲉ ⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁ[ϥ]ϣⲣⲡ ⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲧⲡⲉ
r.39   ϯστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲉπρᾶσις πρός ⲧⲉⲥϭⲟⲙ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ [ⲡϣⲏⲣⲉ]
r.40   ⲙⲡμακάριος ⲁ … ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲓⲟⲥ αἰτεῖν ⲙⲙⲟⲓ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟϥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲕⲁⲙⲟⲩⲗ ⲡἐλάχιστος ⲛδιάκονος
r.41   ⲛⲧκαθολικός ἐκκλησία ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡ[ⲁ]ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲏⲣ ⲙμακάριος ⲏⲗⲓⲁⲥ ⲡἐλάχιστος ⲛπρεσβύτερος ϯⲱ ⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ
r.42   διʼ ἐμοῦ Κυριακοῦ Πέτρου ἀπὸ κάστρου Μεμνονίου ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     … [Ar]senios and Tsherkah the daughter of … …
2     those to whom I first wrote, naming them above from today onward …
3     it … in all lordship of right, complete in law …
4     and I write from now and for all time and forever, to you who come [after me]
5     all my part belonging to me in the courtyard with the tower which [stands]
6     in that place, up to ten beams, this whose other quarter
7     with the ten beams belongs to your father, through the place …
8     the daughter of the late Psan, according to the force of the complete sale which …
9     in writing, while they were yet living. The half however in that courtyard with the tower which [ca]me
10    to me from my late mother there, treasure (?), which is set down in this way according to their
11    ancient dispositions, and they contain as follows: south, Kyriakos the son of the late E…
12    and his heirs; north, the public street, and the place where the [door]
13    opens to it; east, Kyrillos (and) Solomon; west, Abraham
14    (and) Athanase. These are the boundaries of that courtyard with the tower, foursquare. And the price upon which we agreed, that we settled upon with one another
15    for all my part in those places, is one holokottinos and two trimesia,
16    of the standard of the fortress, of gold coin, 1 and a half. This price then which I first appointed
17    I have received from your hands, hand to hand, into my house, beautiful and weighed
18    and full of the standard of this fortress, no right being left to me at all in the courtyard with that tower, by any succession or continuance,
19    in writing or without writing, so that to you, from now on, you Arsenios
20    and Tsherkah, you are the ones who buy, and the ones to whom I first wrote, naming them many
21    times, that you come in and ... that you may be lord and master of all my part in the courtyard with the tower which I have made clear of their boundaries above, that I give it to you to … it, to manage it, to beautify it, to turn it, to dwell in it, to give it away, to bestow it,
22    to make a gift of it, to donate it, to cede it, to exchange it,
23    to leave it to your children, to bequeath it to your heirs and to those who come after you, to act concerning it in every matter, in every possession and lordship
24    and holding forever, lawfully and unhinderedly; because
25    I have received and I have been satisfied by your hands of the complete price in full,
26    and it is not permitted to me, I Makarios who first wrote above, to come out
27    against you concerning any matter, suing you about the courtyard with the tower of which I made clear their boundaries above, neither I nor a child that is mine, nor an heir, nor relative nor relative of a relative, nor a stranger nor my kinsman, nor
28    any other against me, by any manner or pretext; nor shall I be able
29    to sue you in a court of law or outside a court of law, nor in
30    a city or outside the district concerning this sale or any part of it at all;
31    and if it should happen, which may it not be, that anyone dares, whether through me
32    or through another, acting as my representative, to come out, as is likely, and wish
33    to sue, first the one who undertakes a matter of this kind shall fall under the penalty which our righteous law decrees against them,
34    against those who dare to transgress; thereafter he shall pay as a fine twelve holokottinoi, and they shall be demanded from his own property, and even so, this sale shall remain valid and
35    have its force from the laws, this which I have drawn up valid for you
36    and for those who come after you. I dictated it; and it pleased me, according as I gave consent, I subscribed to it with my own hand, and I requested certain other witnesses,
37    trustworthy ones, and they bore witness to it concerning me; I have released it.
38    I, Makare the son of the late Pakouje, who first wrote above,
39    I consent to the sale according to its force. I, Abraham [the son]
40    of the late A… give witness; and Makarios asked me, I wrote on his behalf. I, Kamoul the least deacon
41    of the catholic church, give witness. I, Papnoute the son of the late Elias, the least presbyter, give witness.
42    Through me, Kyriakos (son of) Petros, from the fortress of Memnoneia, it was written.
