[META]
id:       P.LIPS 1.62
label:    P.LIPS 1.62
name:     Receipt — Hermopolis
genre:    receipts
date:     385 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Hermopolis (385 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Register — Quittungen — Kopien — Steuern (u.a. Rekruten) — Geld — Hypodektes Philammon
tm:       22372
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lips;1;62
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    μετὰ [τ]ὴν ὑπατείαν Μεροβαύδου τὸ β καὶ Σατορνίνου τῶν λαμπροτάτων.
r.2    [Κ]λαύδιος Ἆπις Σαίτι[ο]ς πολιτευόμενος Ἀντιν[όο]υ [π]όλεως τῆς λαμπροτάτης ἑξῆς ὑπ[ο]γράφων χρυ[σ]ώ[ν]ης ἐ[π]α[ρ]χ[ε]ίας Θηβαίδος Αὐρηλίῳ Φιλάμμωνι Ἑρμοῦ βουλευτῇ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως τῆς λαμπροτάτης ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ τιρώνων
r.3    τῶν ἀπὸ ἕκτης ἕως ἐνάτης ἰνδικτίονος χαίρειν. ἀκολούθω[ς] τοῖς προσταχθεῖσι ὑπὸ τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ κυρίου μου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαυίου Οὐλπίου Ἐρυθρί[ο]υ ὑπεδ[ε]ξάμην παρά σου διά τε σοῦ τοῦ ὑποδέκτου καὶ διὰ τῶν [ἑξ]ῆ[ς]
r.4    ὑποτε[τ]αγμένων ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας λόγου χρυσοῦ τιρώνων ἀπὸ ἕκτης ἕως ἐνάτης καὶ
r.5    αὐτῆς ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτὸ χρυ[σ]οῦ λίτρας τριάκοντα μετά τῆς ὁρισθείσης ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος γίνεται χρύσου λίτραι λ
r.6    οὕτως·
r.7    διὰ μὲν σοῦ τοῦ ὑποδέκτου χρυσοῦ λίτρας κζ, διὰ Θεοφάνου[ς] ἐξάκτορος χρυσοῦ λίτρας β,
r.8    διὰ δὲ Ἀγαθοκλέους ἐξάκτορος χρυσοῦ οὐγκίας γ, καὶ διὰ τῶν ἀπὸ κώμης Μιχώλεως χρυσοῦ οὐγκίας ϛ,
r.9    διὰ Ὑπερεχίου ἐξάκτορος χρυσοῦ οὐγκίας γ,
r.10   καὶ ἐξεδόμην σοι ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν πρὸς ἀσφάλειαν κυρίαν καὶ βεβαίαν ἁπλῆν οὖσαν πανταχοῦ ἐπιφερομένη[ν]
r.11   καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Κλαύδιος Ἆπις χρυσώνης ὑπεδεξάμην παρὰ σοῦ καὶ διαφόρων ὀνομάτων ἐπὶ τὸ αυτὸ χρυσοῦ
r.12   λίτρας τριάκοντα γίνεται λίτραι λ μετὰ [τ]ῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξέδωκά σοι τὴν ἀποχ[ὴ]ν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.13   μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Μεροβαύδου τ[ὸ] β καὶ Σατορνίνου τῶν λαμπροτάτων
r.14   [Κ]λαύδιος Ἆπις Σαίτιος πολιτευόμενος Ἀντινόου πόλεως χρυσ[ώ]νης ἐπαρχείας Θηβαίδος ἑξῆς ὑπογράφων
r.15   Αὐρηλίῳ Φιλάμμωνι Ἑρμοῦ βουλευτῇ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως τῆς λαμπροτάτης ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ τιρώνων χαίρειν.
r.16   ἀκολούθως τοῖς προσταχθεῖσι ὑπὸ τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ κυρίου μου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαυίου Οὐλπίου
r.17   Ἐρυθρίου ὑπεδεξάμην παρά σου καὶ νῦν ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας λόγου χρυ[σ]οῦ τιρώνων τῶν ἀπὸ ϛ ἕως θ καὶ
r.18   αὐτῆς ἰνδικτίονων χρυσ[ο]ῦ λίτρας εἴκοσι μετὰ τῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι κ καὶ ἐξεδόμην ὑμῖν ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν πρὸ[ς ἀ]σφάλειαν καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Κλαύδιος Ἆπις χρυσώνης ὑπεδε[ξ]άμην
r.19   μετὰ τῆς καταβολῆς Ἑρμοδώρου ζυγοστάτου ὑπέρ σου χρυσοῦ λίτρας κ μετὰ τῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ ἀναλώματος καὶ
r.20   ἐξέδωκά σοι ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.21   μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Ῥιγχομήρου καὶ Κλεάρχου τῶν λαμπροτάτων.
r.22   Κλαύδιος Ἆπις πολιτευόμενος Ἀντινόου πόλε[ω]ς χρυσώνης ἐπαρχείας Θηβαίδος ἑξῆς ὑπογράφων
r.23   Αὐρηλίῳ Φιλάμμωνι Ἑρμοῦ βουλευτῇ Ἑρμοῦ πόλε[ως] τῆς λαμπροτάτης ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ τιρώνων χαίρειν.
r.24   [ἀκο]λούθως τοῖς προσταχθεῖσι ὑπὸ τῆς ἐξουσ[ίας τοῦ] κυρίου μου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαυίου
r.25   [Οὐ]λπίου Ἐρυθρίου ὑπεδεξάμην παρά σου καὶ νῦ[ν ὑ]πὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας ἀπὸ λόγου χρυσοῦ τιρών[ων]
r.26   τῶν ἀπὸ ϛ ἕως θ ἰνδικτιόνων καὶ αὐτῆς χρυσοῦ λίτρας δέκα πέντε καὶ οὐγκίας ἓξ μετὰ τῆς ὁρισθείσης
r.27   ὀμ[βρύ]ζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξεδόμην σοι ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν κυρίαν οὖσαν πανταχοῦ ἐπιφε[ρομ]ένην καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. οὕτως ἡ καταβολή·
r.28   διὰ μὲν σοῦ τοῦ ὑποδέκτου λίτρας ιγ οὐγκίας δ
r.29   διὰ Δωροθέου καὶ Ζηνοδότου λίτρας β οὐγκίας β.
r.30   Κλαύδιος Ἆ[π]ις ὁ προκείμενος χρυσώνης ὑπεδεξάμην [δ]ιὰ σοῦ καὶ τῶν ῥιπαρίων χρυσοῦ λίτρας δέκα
r.31   πέντε οὐγκίας ἓξ γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ιε οὐγκίαι ϛ μετὰ τῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξέδωκά σοι ταύτην
r.32   τὴν ἀποχὴν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.33   μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Ῥιγχο[μήρο]υ καὶ Κλεά[ρχ]ου τῶν λαμπροτάτων.
r.34   Κλαύδιος Ἆπις Σαίτιος πολιτευόμεν[ος Ἀντινόου] πόλεως χρυσώνης ἐπαρχείας Θηβαίδος ἐ[ξ]ῆς ὑπογράφων
r.35   Αὐρηλίῳ Φιλάμμωνι Ἑρμοῦ βουλευτῇ Ἑρμοῦ [π]όλεως τῆς λαμπροτάτης ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ χαίρειν. ἀκολούθως τοῖς προσταχθεῖσι ὑπὸ τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ κυρίου μου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαυίου Οὐλπίου
r.36   Ἐρυθρίου ὑπεδεξάμην παρά σου καὶ νῦν ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας ἀπὸ λό[γ]ο[υ] χρυσοῦ τιρώνων τῶν ἀπὸ ϛ ἕως θ
r.37   καὶ αὐτῆς ἰνδικτιόνων χρυσοῦ λίτρας δέκα ὀκτὼ γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ιη μετὰ τῆς ὁρισθείσης ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξεδόμην σοι ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν πρὸς ἀσφάλειαν καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Κλαύδιος Ἆπις ὁ προκείμενος
r.38   χρυσώνης ὑπεδεξάμην χρυσοῦ λίτρας δέκα ὀκτὼ γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ιη μετὰ τῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος
r.39   καὶ [ἐξ]έδωκά σοι τὴν ἀποχὴν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.40   καὶ ἀπὸ ἐνταγίων Χούιτος χρυσώνου ὁμοίως διαφόρων τίτλων καὶ διαφόρων ἰνδικτιόνων οὕτως
r.41   ὡς ἑξῆς δηλοῦται. Χοῦις χρυσώνης Φιλάμμωνι ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως. ὑπεδεξάμην
r.42   παρά σου ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας χρυσοῦ λίτρας τριάκοντα ὀκτὼ οὐγκίας τρεῖς ὀμβρύζης καὶ ἀναλώματος γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι λη οὐγκίαι γ διαφόρων τίτλων χωρὶς διαστολῶν ἀκύρων οὐσῶν ἑτέρων ἐνταγίων ἀπὸ ἰνδικτίονος ιγ καὶ ἀπὸ ιδ ἰνδικτίονος καὶ
r.43   λοιπάδων· ἀπ[ε]στάλησαν εἰς τοὺς θείους θησαυροὺς Ἁθὺρ η
r.44   πεντεκαιδεκάτης ἰνδικτίονος, εἴτε ἐν σταθμῷ εἴτε ἐν νομισματί[ο]ις. Χοῦις χρυσώνης σεσημείωμαι
r.45   χρυσοῦ καθαροῦ λίτρας τριάκοντα ὀκτὼ οὐγκίας τρεῖς γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι λη οὐγκίαι γ μόνας.
r.46   μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Ῥιγχομήρου καὶ Κλεάρχου τῶν λαμπροτάτων ἐπάρχων.
r.47   Κλαύδιος Ἆπις πολιτευόμενος Ἀντινόου πόλεως χρυσώνης ἐπαρχείας Θηβαίδος ἑξῆς ὑπογράφων.
r.48   Αὐρηλίῳ Φιλάμμωνι Ἑρμοῦ βουλευτῇ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ χαίρειν. ἀκολούθως τοῖς προσταχθεῖσι ὑπὸ τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ κυρί[ο]υ μου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου ἡγεμόνος Φλαυίου Οὐλπίου Ἐρυθρίου ὑπεδεξάμην
r.49   παρὰ σοῦ ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας ἀπὸ λόγου χρυσοῦ ἀρουρατίονος διγραμμ … τῆς ιβ ἰνδικτίονος χρυσοῦ λίτρας
r.50   δέκα γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ι μετὰ τῆς ὁρισθείσης ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξεδόμην σοι ταύτην
r.51   τὴν ἀποχὴν πρὸς ἀσφάλειαν καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. Κλαύδιος Ἆπις χρυσώνης ὑπεδεξάμην χρυσοῦ λίτρας
r.52   δέκα γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ι μετὰ τῆς ὀμβρύζης καὶ τοῦ ἀναλώματος καὶ ἐξέδωκα ταύτην τὴν ἀποχὴν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.53   ἄλλο ἐντάγιον Χούιτος ὁμοίως.
r.54   Χοῦις χρυσώνης Φιλάμμωνι ὑποδέκτῃ χρυσοῦ Ἑρμοῦ πόλεως. ὑπεδεξάμην παρά σου ὁμοίως
r.55   ὑπὲρ τῆς σῆς πολιτείας χρυσοῦ λίτρας δεκατέσσαρας οὐγκία[ς] δύο γράμμα ἓν με[τὰ τῆς ὀμ]βρύζης
r.56   καὶ ἀναλώμασι γίνεται χρυσοῦ λίτραι ιδ οὐγκίαι β γράμμα α διαφόρων τίτλων χωρὶς διαστολῶν ἀκύρων οὐσῶν
r.57   ἑτέρων ἄλλων ἐντα[γ]ίων ἀπὸ ἰνδικτίονος ιγ ἕως ιδ καὶ λοιπάδων καὶ ἀπεστάλησαν εἰς τοὺς θείους
r.58   θησαυροὺς Ἁθὺρ η πεντεκαιδεκάτη[ς] ἰ[ν]δικτίονος καὶ ὑπὲρ Αἰλιανο[ῦ] ἐξάκτορος χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια
r.59   ἑκατὸν λίτραν μίαν οὐγκίας τέσσαρας γρ[ά]μματα δέκα ἕξ , ἔστι δὲ ἐν σταθμῷ εἴτε ἐν νομισματίοις.
r.60   Χοῦις χρυσώνης σεσημείωμαι χρυσοῦ λίτρας ιδ οὐγκίας β γράμμα α. καὶ ὑπὲρ Αἰλιανοῦ καθαροῦ νομισμάτια ἑκατὸν. Χοῦις σεσημείωμαι.

[TRANSLATION]
1     After the consulship of Merobaudes for the 2nd time and of Saturninus, the most illustrious.
2     Claudius Apis Saitios, councillor of Antinoopolis the most illustrious, undersigned below, gold-collector of the province of the Thebaid, to Aurelius Philammon son of Hermes, councillor of Hermopolis the most illustrious, receiver of the gold for recruits
3     of the sixth to the ninth indiction, greeting. In accordance with the orders given by the authority of my lord, the most illustrious governor Flavius Ulpius Erythrios, I have received from you, both through you the receiver and through the
4     undersigned below, on behalf of your city, on the account of the gold for recruits from the sixth to the ninth, and
5     of the same (indiction), in all, thirty pounds of gold with the prescribed refining-charge and the expense-charge, making 30 pounds of gold,
6     thus:
7     through you the receiver, 27 pounds of gold; through Theophanes the exactor, 2 pounds of gold;
8     through Agathokles the exactor, 3 ounces of gold; and through the people from the village of Micholis, 6 ounces of gold;
9     through Hyperechios the exactor, 3 ounces of gold.
10    And I have issued to you this receipt for assurance, valid and secure, being single, carried everywhere,
11    and on being formally questioned I gave my acknowledgement. Claudius Apis, gold-collector, I have received from you and from various accounts, in all, of gold
12    thirty pounds, making 30 pounds, with the refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I issued to you the receipt as stated above.
13    After the consulship of Merobaudes for the 2nd time and of Saturninus, the most illustrious.
14    Claudius Apis Saitios, councillor of Antinoopolis, gold-collector of the province of the Thebaid, undersigned below,
15    to Aurelius Philammon son of Hermes, councillor of Hermopolis the most illustrious, receiver of the gold for recruits, greeting.
16    In accordance with the orders given by the authority of my lord, the most illustrious governor Flavius Ulpius
17    Erythrios, I have received from you, also now, on behalf of your city, on the account of the gold for recruits from the 6th to the 9th and
18    of the same indictions, twenty pounds of gold with the refining-charge and the expense-charge, making 20 pounds of gold, and I have issued to you this receipt for assurance, and on being formally questioned I gave my acknowledgement. Claudius Apis, gold-collector, I have received
19    with the payment of Hermodoros the weigher, on your behalf, 20 pounds of gold with the refining-charge and the expense-charge, and
20    I issued to you this receipt as stated above.
21    After the consulship of Rhinchomeres and of Klearchos, the most illustrious.
22    Claudius Apis, councillor of Antinoopolis, gold-collector of the province of the Thebaid, undersigned below,
23    to Aurelius Philammon son of Hermes, councillor of Hermopolis the most illustrious, receiver of the gold for recruits, greeting.
24    In accordance with the orders given by the authority of my lord, the most illustrious governor Flavius
25    Ulpius Erythrios, I have received from you, also now, on behalf of your city, from the account of the gold for recruits
26    of the (indictions) from the 6th to the 9th and of the same (indiction), fifteen pounds of gold and six ounces with the prescribed
27    refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I have issued to you this receipt, valid, carried everywhere, and on being formally questioned I gave my acknowledgement. Thus the payment:
28    through you the receiver, 13 pounds, 4 ounces;
29    through Dorotheos and Zenodotos, 2 pounds, 2 ounces.
30    Claudius Apis the aforesaid, gold-collector, I have received through you and through the riparii ten pounds of gold,
31    five and six ounces, making 15 pounds, 6 ounces of gold, with the refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I issued to you this
32    receipt as stated above.
33    After the consulship of Rhinchomeres and of Klearchos, the most illustrious.
34    Claudius Apis Saitios, councillor [of Antinoopolis], gold-collector of the province of the Thebaid, undersigned below,
35    to Aurelius Philammon son of Hermes, councillor of Hermopolis the most illustrious, receiver of gold, greeting. In accordance with the orders given by the authority of my lord, the most illustrious governor Flavius Ulpius
36    Erythrios, I have received from you, also now, on behalf of your city, from the account of the gold for recruits of the (indictions) from the 6th to the 9th
37    and of the same indictions, eighteen pounds of gold, making 18 pounds of gold, with the prescribed refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I have issued to you this receipt for assurance, and on being formally questioned I gave my acknowledgement. Claudius Apis the aforesaid,
38    gold-collector, I have received eighteen pounds of gold, making 18 pounds of gold, with the refining-charge and the expense-charge,
39    and I issued to you the receipt as stated above.
40    And from the warrants of Chouis the gold-collector, likewise of various titles and various indictions, thus
41    as is set out below. Chouis, gold-collector, to Philammon, receiver of gold of Hermopolis. I have received
42    from you, on behalf of your city, thirty-eight pounds, three ounces of gold, (with) refining-charge and expense-charge, making 38 pounds, 3 ounces of gold, of various titles, apart from the assignments, other warrants being void, from the 13th indiction and from the 14th indiction and
43    of the arrears; they were sent to the divine treasuries, Hathyr 8
44    of the fifteenth indiction, whether in weight or in coin. Chouis, gold-collector, I have signed off
45    thirty-eight pounds, three ounces of pure gold, making 38 pounds, 3 ounces of gold only.
46    After the consulship of Rhinchomeres and of Klearchos, the most illustrious prefects.
47    Claudius Apis, councillor of Antinoopolis, gold-collector of the province of the Thebaid, undersigned below.
48    To Aurelius Philammon son of Hermes, councillor of Hermopolis, receiver of gold, greeting. In accordance with the orders given by the authority of my lord, the most illustrious governor Flavius Ulpius Erythrios, I have received
49    from you, on behalf of your city, from the account of the gold of the land-tax (arouration) of two-grammata (?) … of the 12th indiction, ten pounds of gold,
50    making 10 pounds of gold, with the prescribed refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I have issued to you this
51    receipt for assurance, and on being formally questioned I gave my acknowledgement. Claudius Apis, gold-collector, I have received ten pounds of gold,
52    making 10 pounds of gold, with the refining-charge and the expense-charge, and I issued this receipt as stated above.
53    Another warrant of Chouis, likewise.
54    Chouis, gold-collector, to Philammon, receiver of gold of Hermopolis. I have received from you, likewise,
55    on behalf of your city, fourteen pounds, two ounces, one gramma of gold, with the refining-charge
56    and expense-charges, making 14 pounds, 2 ounces, 1 gramma of gold, of various titles, apart from the assignments, other warrants being void,
57    from the 13th to the 14th indiction and of the arrears, and they were sent to the divine
58    treasuries, Hathyr 8 of the fifteenth indiction; and on behalf of Aelianus the exactor, one hundred gold solidi, one pound, four ounces,
59    sixteen grammata, and it is in weight or in coin.
60    Chouis, gold-collector, I have signed off 14 pounds, 2 ounces, 1 gramma of gold. And on behalf of Aelianus, one hundred solidi of pure (gold). Chouis, I have signed off.
