[META]
id:       P.LIPS 1.1
label:    P.LIPS 1.1
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     104 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (104 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf (Sicherung) — Land — Agoranome
tm:       80
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lips;1;1
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας [καὶ] βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου τοῦ υἱοῦ Θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων
r.2    ἔτους ιγ τοῦ καὶ ι ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Μεσορὴ κγ ἐν Παθύρει ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου
r.3    τοῦ παρὰ Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου. ἀπέδοτο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὡς ἐτῶν λ εὐμεγέθης
r.4    μελίχρως ὑπόκλαστος μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ ὀδόντι καὶ παρʼ ὀφθαλμὸν ἀριστερὸν τὴν ἐπιβάλλουσαν αὐτῷ τετάρτην μερίδα
r.5    ἀμπελῶνος συνφύτου τοῦ ὄντος ἐν τῇ ταινίᾳ Παθύρεως καὶ πάντων τῶν φυομένων δένδρων καὶ πέμπτην μερίδα
r.6    γῆς σιτοφόρου ἐν τῷ ἀπὸ βορρᾶ καὶ λιβὸς τοῦ ἀμπελῶνος συναπτούσης ἐν τῇ αὐτῇ ταινίᾳ [ὑπαρχούσης αὐτῷ] καὶ τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς ἀδιαιρέτου,
r.7    ὧν γείτονες νότου ἀμπελὼν Ταθώτιος τῆς Φίβιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Ὥρου καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, ἀπηλιώτου περίβολος
r.8    τῶν ἀμπελώνων, λιβὸς περίχωμα, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Σεννῆσις Ψενθώτου Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν κε
r.9    ἐλάσσων μελίχρως κάκοψις μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς ἀδελφοῦ Πετεαρσεμθέως Πανοβχούνιος τοῦ πωλουμένου τιμῆς τῆς
r.10   συνχωρηθείσης χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α δραχμῶν Εφ. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πετεαρσεμθεὺς
r.11   ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Σεννῆσις ἡ πριαμένη.
r.12   ὠνὴ Πετεαρσεμθέως.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Kleopatra [and] King Ptolemaios surnamed Alexandros, the son, the Mother-loving Saviour Gods,
2     year 13 which is also 10, in (the term of) the priests and priestesses and basket-bearer of those who are (in office), in the month Mesore, the 23rd, in Pathyris, before Hermias
3     the (agent) of Paniskos the agoranomos. Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis, a Persian of the epigone, about 30 years old, tall,
4     honey-colored, somewhat flat-faced (?), long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on a tooth and beside the left eye, sold the fourth share belonging to him
5     of a vineyard planted together, which is in the strip (of land) of Pathyris, and of all the trees growing (there), and the fifth share
6     of grain-bearing land in the (part) to the north and west of the vineyard, adjoining (it) in the same strip, [belonging to him] and to his brothers undivided,
7     of which the neighbors (are): to the south, the vineyard of Tathotis daughter of Phibis; to the north, the land of Patous son of Horos and of his brothers; to the east, the enclosure
8     of the vineyards; to the west, an embankment — or whoever the neighbors may be on all sides. Sennesis daughter of Psenthotes, a Persian woman, about 25 years old,
9     shortish, honey-colored, with bad eyesight, bought (it), with her guardian her own brother Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis, at the price of the (property) sold
10    that was agreed, 1 talent of copper (and) 1,500 drachmas. Fore-seller and guarantor of all (matters) pertaining to this purchase (is) Petearsemtheus,
11    the seller, whom Sennesis the buyer accepted.
12    Purchase of Petearsemtheus.
