[META]
id:       P.LIPS 1.40
label:    P.LIPS 1.40
name:     Documentary papyrus — Hermopolis
genre:    documents
date:     376 CE – 400 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Hermopolis (376 CE – 400 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Protokoll — Prozeß — Verhör — Kampf — wer war wie beteiligt
tm:       33700
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lips;1;40
lat:      31.037798
lon:      31.379406

[GREEK]
r.1    … Herminus [a]dvocatus dixit: τὰ πλήγματ[α] φανερ[ὰ] …
r.2    … εἶπον [ὅ]τι δοῦλός εἰμι. παραμένω
r.3    … [Ac]holius dixit: ἔχω κατὰ τοῦ … μου με… ἔχει κατὰ τοῦ … ου. Herminus advocatus dixit:
r.4    … [Ac]holius dixit: οὐκ ε … αυτοι …
r.5    … [ ἡ ἔσω καὶ ἡ ἔ]ξω θύρα χαμαὶ κεῖνται ε …
r.6    … [τ]ότε ἔριψεν τὸν λίθον.
r.7    … αι … τε ἔβ[αλ]εν τ[ὸν] λίθο[ν]. [H]erminus advocatus dixit:
r.8    … κέλευσον αὐτὸ[ν] εἰσελθεῖν. Herminus advocatus dixit:
r.9    ἐξετάσῃ εἰ μόνος οὕτος ἦν [ἤ] δοῦλος μετʼ αὐτοῦ.
r.10   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: μόνος ἐστὶν οὗτος ὁ ἐπελθὼν
r.11   ἢ καὶ ἕτεροι; Filammon dixit: τέσσαρές εἰσιν, Στεργόριος καὶ ἕτεροι. εἴπῃ, τίνες εἰσὶν οἱ μετʼ αὐτοῦ, αὐτὸς οἶδεν τοὺς
r.12   συνδούλους ἑαυτοῦ.
r.13   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: εἰπὲ τὰς προσηγορίας αὐτῶν. Filammon dixit: οὐκ ἴσμεν αὐτούς, αὐτὸς οἶδεν. εἴπῃ αὐτὸς παρὼν καὶ στήγων τὰ ὀνόματα αὐτῶν, αὐτὸς οἶδεν αὐτούς.
r.14   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: πόσοι συνεπῆλθον ἅμα σοι οἰκέται; Acholius dixit: μόνος μετὰ τοῦ παιδίου ἐγὼ ἤμην.
r.15   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: εἰπὲ τὸ ἀληθές. Acholius dixit: μόνος ἤμην μετὰ τοῦ παιδίου.
r.16   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: Expolia. C[u]mque expoliatus fuisset, dixit: ἐγώ ἤμην μόνος καὶ ὁ μικρὸς ἐκεῖνος νέος πάνυ τυγχάνων. Filammon dixit: δύναται ὁ λογιστὴς εἰπεῖν ὅτι πολλοί εἰσιν.
r.17   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: εἰσαγέσθω ὁ λογιστὴς ὃν καλοῦσιν μάρτυν. Inducto Hermaione curatore civitatis Hermupol
r.18   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: μάρτυρά σε κεκλήκασι τῶν πραχθέντων. λέξεις δὲ ὡς ἐλεύθερος τὰ ἀληθῆ. τίνα ἑόρακας ἢ τίνα τετόλμηται; Hermaion curator dixit: ὀψὲ πάνυ
r.19   βαθ[ε]ίας ἑσπέρ[ας] θρύλλον ἤκουσα ἐπὶ τῆς οἰκίας μου τυγχάνων καὶ ἔπεμψα τοὺς παῖδάς μου ὥστε γνῶναι τὴν αἰτίαν. ἐξῆλθον καὶ εὑρήκασι τοῦτον [τὸν] Ἀσυνκρίτιον ἑ[λκ]όμενον καὶ τυπτόμενον ὑπὸ γαλλιαρίων
r.20   καὶ ἐποίησαν αὐτοὺς ἀναστεῖλαι τὴν ἀταξίαν.
r.21   [Flavius Leontius B]eronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: πόσοι ἦσαν οἰκέται; Hermaion dixit: δύο ἦσαν ἐκεῖ ἢ τρεῖς , ὀψὲ πάνυ ἦν. Senecion dixit: ἠξιώθη καὶ ὁ λογιστὴς ἵνα ταῦτα εἴπῃ. ἀξιῶ τὸν σκρίβα εἰσελθεῖν
r.22   [καὶ εἰπεῖν·] πολλοὶ ἄνθρωποί εἰσιν οἱ ἀνελθόντες ε[ἰς τὴν] οἰκίαν, τριάκοντα καὶ τεσσεράκοντά εἰσιν. Hermaion curator dixit: εἰ μὴ ἦσαν πρὸς τῇ οἰκίᾳ μου, πάλαι ἂν ὁ Ἀσυγκρίτιος τετελεύτηκεν, μὰ τὸν παντοκράτορα
r.23   [θεόν]. Sen[ec]ion dixit: καλῶς διδάσκει. αὕτη ἡ οἰκία ἐ[γγυς τῆ]ς οἰκίας τοῦ λογιστοῦ ἐστιν. ὁ λογιστὴς ἐκεῖ μένει.
r.24   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίνες εἰσὶν οἱ μετά σου τὴν ἔφοδον τολμήσαντες, καταμήνυσον. Acholius dixit: δύο ἦσαν πρότερον, ἐγὼ καὶ ὁ μικρός, μετὰ ταῦτα ἦλθεν σύνδουλός μου
r.25   μετὰ τὴν μάχην, μετὰ τὴν λύσιν τῆς μάχ[ης]. Herm[i]nus advocatus dixit: ἀνὴρ ἀξιόπιστος ἐμαρτύρησεν πρωτεύων τῆς Ἑρμουπολιτῶν.
r.26   [Flavius Leontius B]eronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: ε[ἰπὲ] τὰ ὀνόματα τῶν συνεπελθόντων. Acholius dixit: τὸ παιδίον καὶ Γοργόνιος ὁ λεγόμενος κατασχεῖν τὰς χεῖρας αὐτοῦ
r.27   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit:ἐλεύθεροί εἰσιν ἢ οἰκέται; Acholius dixit: δοῦλοί εἰσιν.
r.28   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίνος δοῦλοι; Acholius dixit: Σεργίου τοῦ ἀ[γα]θοῦ δεσπότου μου. Senecion διχιτἀπών ἐστιν ὁ δεσπότης αὐτῶν. ἐπήρειαν πέπονθεν ἡ οἰκία αὐτοῦ. μαρτυρίαν ἔχω.
r.29   ἡ ἀρετή σου τὸν σκρίβα ἔπεμψεν καὶ εἶδεν τὰς θύρας χαμαὶ ἐρριμμένας. ἠξίωσα δὲ μυριαστὸν ἐν ὑπομνήμασι εἰσαχθῆναι τὸν σκρίβα καὶ λέγειν, τίνες τὴν ἐπήρειαν ἐποίησαν.
r.30   [δ]εικνύω ὅτι τριάκοντα καὶ τεσσεράκοντα ἀνῆλθον ἄνω εἰς τὴν οἰκίαν. Filammon dixit: οὐκ ἅπαξ οὐ δεύτερον οὐδὲ τρ[ί]τον ἦλθεν εἰς τὴν πόλιν ταύτην καὶ ἐρήμωσεν ἡμᾶς. τίνι
r.31   [ο]ὐκ ἐπῆλθεν; Senecion dixit: καὶ ἐγὼ αὐτὸς φοβοῦμαι, ἐπειδῆ ἀπὼν ἐστιν ὁ ἑταῖρός μου. λόγος ἐστὶν δημόσιος τῶν κοντουβερναλίων ἀποκείμενος. αἱ θύραι χαμαί εἰσιν. ὁ σκρίβας ἔλθῃ,
r.32   καταθῆται ἐν ὑπομνήμασι καὶ ὁμολογήσῃ τοῦς ἀνελθόντας καὶ τίς ἐστιν ὁ ἀνελθών. οὐ γὰρ ἔγνων, τίς ἐστιν ὁ ἀνελθών. Filammon dixit: ὁμολογεῖ ὁ δοῦλος ὅτι κατέσχεν τὰς χεῖρας
r.33   [τοῦ υ]ἱοῦ μου καὶ ἐτύπτησεν.
r.34   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίνος ἕνεκεν ἐ[π]ῆλθες τῷ βο[υ]λευτῇ κατὰ τὴν ἑσπέρ[α]ν καὶ τραύματα εἰργάσω κατὰ τῆς ὀφρύος αὐτου; Acholius dixit:
r.35   [δ]έομαί σου τῆς ἀρετῆς, ἐγὼ οὐκ ἐπῆλθον, ἀλλʼ αὐτός μοι ἐπῆλθεν. πάντως μοῖρά μου ἦν ὥστε με ἐμπ[ί]π[τ]ει[ν] ε[ἰς α]ὐτὸν [ὀ]ψέ.
r.36   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τὸ τραῦμα τίς εἰργάσατο; Acholius dixit: τὸ μικρὸν παιδίον.
r.37   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τί λέγει ὁ τὴν πληγὴν δεξάμενος; Filammon dixit: ἄλλος τὰς χεῖρας αὐτοῦ ἐκράτησεν, ἄλλος ἔβαλεν αὐτὸν χαμαὶ καὶ ἠθέλησεν αὐτὸν ἀποκτεῖναι διὰ τὸ δημό[σιον]
r.38   χρυσίον, ὁ εἷς τὰς χεῖρας αὐτοῦ ἐκράτησεν, ὁ ἄλλος λίθῳ δέδωκεν τῷ υἱῷ μου, ἄλλος ἐλάκτισεν. ὅλον τὸ σῶμα αὐτοῦ πεπληγμένον ἐστὶν. μὰ τὴν πρόνοιαν, παρʼ ὀλίγον ἀπέθανεν.
r.39   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίς ὁ πλήξας, εἰπὲ σαφῶς. Filammon dixit: οἱ σύνδουλο[ι] τούτου.
r.40   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: ὁ παρὼν ἔπληξεν ἢ καὶ
r.41   ἕτερος; Filammon dixit: οὐκ οἶδα τίς ἐστιν αὐτῶν. οὐκ ἀνέρχονται παρʼ ἡμῖν ἡμεραίας μήτι γε νυκτός. Herminus advocatus dixit: ὡμολόγησεν αὐτὸς
r.42   ὁ οἰκέτης ὅτι ὁ μὲν τὰς χεῖρας αὐτοῦ ἐκράτησεν, ἕτεροι ἐπῆλθον καὶ ἐτύπτησαν. τὰ αὐτὰ δὲ κατέθετο καὶ ἀξιόπιστος μάρτυς ἀνὴρ πρωτεύων κατὰ τὴν Ἑρμουπολιτῶν καὶ ὑπόλοιπον ὥστε τιμωρίαν ἐξενεχ[θῆναι]
r.43   τὴν δέουσαν κατὰ τῶν ἐπελθόντων τῷ βουλευτῇ. Senecion superstator dixit:διὰ πειθανολογίας τὰ ἁρπαγέντα ζητοῦσι κατέχειν. κεῖνται αἱ θύραι. μαρτυρία ἐστίν. μυριαστὸν κατεθέμην ὅτι αἱ θύραι κεῖντα[ι]
r.44   καὶ ἀξιῶ τὸν σκρίβα εἰσελθεῖν καὶ εἰπεῖν· ἀοίκητός ἐστιν ὁ οἶκος [τὸ] λοιπόν.
r.45   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: καὶ μὴν ταῦτα ὁ οἰκέτης οὐκ αἰτιᾶται. Senecion dixit: ἡ ἀρετή σου οὐκ ἐζήτησεν, ἡ ἀρετή σου ἐξετάσαι.
r.46   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίνος ἕνεκεν ἐπήλθατε Ἀσυνκριτίῳ; Acholius dixit: οὐκ ἐπήλθαμεν, αὐτὸς ἐπ[ῆ]λθεν.
r.47   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: κατὰ τίνας τόπους; Acholius dixit: εἰς ἐκείνην τὴν ῥύμην.
r.48   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: λεγέτω Φιλάμμων τίνες εἰσὶν οἱ τὸ χρυσίον ἀφελόμενοι τοῦ υἱοῦ αὐτοῦ. Filammon dixit: οὗτοι οἱ δοῦλοι.
r.49   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Thebaeidis dixit: πόσον χρυσίον; Filammon dixit: ὡς δέκα χρυσίνους ἢ δώδεκα . Senecion superstator dixit: ὁ δὲ λόγος τοῦ ἑταίρου μου Σεργ[ί]ου [ἀργυ]ρίου χιλίων τετρακοσίων ἐστίν
r.50   ἀξιῶ τὴν λαμπρότητά σου κελεῦσαι εἰσαχθῆναι τὸν σκρίβα καὶ εἰπεῖν ὅτι αἱ θύραι χαμαὶ κεῖνται καὶ σκρίβα παρείληφα ἐμαρτυροποίησα καὶ ἕτοιμος ὁ σκρίβας καταθέσθαι ἐν ὑπομνήμασι τίνος π … .
r.51   τίνες εἰσὶν οἱ ἐπελθόντες, ὑποβάλῃ τίς ἐστιν. ἕτεροι τριάκοντα ὡς λέγει σὺν αὐτοῖς ἦσαν. μὴ γὰρ οἶδα, μὴ γὰρ μετʼ αὐτῶν ἤμην. ἐξετασθῇ ὁ σκρίβας.
r.52   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: εἰσαγέσθω ὁ σκρίβας. Gennadius adiutor commentariorum dixit: ἐκελεύσθη ἀκολουθεῖν τῷ νυκτοστρατήγῳ ἀρτίως κατὰ πρόσταγμα τῆς σῆς [λ]α[μ]π[ρότητος] διὰ
r.53   τὴν παράστασιν τῶν ὑποβληθέντων ὑπὸ τῶν β[ο]υλευτῶν εἰς τὸν κεφαλαιωτήν. Senecion dixit: ἤνεγκα τὸν σκρίβα καὶ παραδέδωκα τῷ πρωξίμῳ.
r.54   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit:τοῦ σκρίβου τί χρῄζεις; Senecion dixit: ἡ ἀρετή σου μάρτυρας ἐζήτησεν ὅτι ἐπῆλθον τῷ ὁσπιτίῳ τοῦ κολλήγα μου. Filammon dixit: ὁ υἱός μ[ου]
r.55   ἐκινδύνευσεν ἀποθανεῖν διὰ τὰς πληγάς.
r.56   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: τίνος ἕνεκεν ἐπῆλθες τῷ βουλευτῇ; et ad officium dixit: τυπτέσθω. et cumque buneuris caesus fuisset,
r.57   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: ἐλευθέρους μὴ τύπτητε. et ad officium dixit parce. cumque pepertum ei fuisset,
r.58   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: εἰπὲ ποῦ ἐστιν τὸ χρυσίον ὅπερ ἥρπασας. Acholius dixit: τὸ ἱμάτιον αὐτοῦ ἀπεδύσατο καὶ δέδωκεν [τῇ] γυναικὶ τῇ ἀκολουθούσῃ αὐτῷ. οὐκ εἶ[δον].
r.59   Flavius Leontius Beronicianus vir clarissimus praeses Tebaeidis dixit: διέλεγξον αὐτὸν ὅτι χρυσίον σου ἀφείλατο. Filammon dixit: ἀπὸ τῆς μάχης ἔλυσεν ἀπὸ [τ]ῆς χειρίδος τοῦ υἱοῦ μ[ου] καὶ ἥρπασεν, εἷς ἐκράτησεν αὐτὸν κα[ὶ]
r.60   ὁμολογεῖ ὅτι Γορ[γ]όνιος ἔδησεν αὐτοῦ τὰς χεῖρας. Herminus advocatus dixit: ἀξιοῦμεν ἄλλους τοὺς συνεργήσαντας αὐτῷ οἰκέτας παρεῖναι. Filammon dixit: Στεργόριος τὴν κεφαλὴν αὐτοῦ ἐκροτάφισεν.
r.61   Senecion dixit:καταθῆται εἰ αὐτὸς μόνος ἦν ἢ ἄλλοι μετʼ αὐτοῦ, ἵνα ἀσφαλὲς ἡμῖν γένηται, ἵνα ὁ σκρίβας ἔλθῃ καὶ εἴπῃ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … Herminus the advocate said: "The blows are evident …
2     … I said that I am a slave. I remain in service
3     … Acholius said: "I have (a claim) against my … He has (a claim) against the … " Herminus the advocate said:
4     … Acholius said: "Not e… themselves …"
5     … "[the inner] and the outer door lie on the ground …"
6     … "then he threw the stone."
7     … "… he cast the stone." Herminus the advocate said:
8     … "Order him to come in." Herminus the advocate said:
9     "Let him examine whether this man was alone, [or] a slave was with him."
10    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Is this the one who made the attack alone,
11    or were there others?" Filammon said: "There are four, Stergorios and others. Let him say who are those with him; he himself knows
12    his own fellow-slaves."
13    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "State their names." Filammon said: "We do not know them; he knows. Let him, being present and standing, state their names; he knows them."
14    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "How many household slaves attacked together with you?" Acholius said: "I was alone, with the boy."
15    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Tell the truth." Acholius said: "I was alone, with the boy."
16    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Strip (him)." And when he had been stripped, he said: "I was alone, and that little one, being a very young lad." Filammon said: "The curator (logistes) can say that there are many."
17    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Let the curator (logistes) be brought in, whom they call a witness." Hermaion, curator of the city of Hermopolis, having been brought in:
18    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "They have called you as a witness of what was done. As a free man, you shall state the truth. Whom did you see, or what was dared?" Hermaion the curator said: "Very late,
19    in the deep of evening, being at my house, I heard an uproar, and I sent my slaves to learn the cause. They went out and found this Asyncritios being dragged and struck by gallant fellows (?),
20    and they made them cease the disorder."
21    [Flavius Leontius B]eronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "How many household slaves were there?" Hermaion said: "There were two there, or three; it was very late." Senecion said: "The curator too was asked to say these things. I request that the scribe (scriba) come in
22    [and state]: 'There are many men who went up to the house, they are thirty and forty.'" Hermaion the curator said: "If they had not been near my house, long ago Asyncritios would have died, by the Almighty
23    [God]." Senecion said: "He teaches well. This house is near the house of the curator (logistes). The curator dwells there."
24    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Who are those who dared the assault with you? Denounce (them)." Acholius said: "There were two at first, I and the little one; after that my fellow-slave came
25    after the fight, after the breaking-up of the fight." Herminus the advocate said: "A trustworthy man has borne witness, a leading man of the people of Hermopolis."
26    [Flavius Leontius B]eronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "State the names of those who attacked together." Acholius said: "The boy, and Gorgonios, who is said to have held his hands."
27    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Are they free men or household slaves?" Acholius said: "They are slaves."
28    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Whose slaves?" Acholius said: "Of Sergios, my good master." Senecion, speaking, (said): "Their master is absent. His house has suffered violence. I have testimony."
29    "Your Excellency sent the scribe (scriba) and he saw the doors cast down on the ground. I requested that, ten-thousandth time (?), the scribe be brought in among the records and state who did the violence."
30    "I show that thirty and forty went up into the house." Filammon said: "Not once, not a second nor a third time has he come into this city and laid it waste. Whom
31    has he not attacked?" Senecion said: "And I myself am afraid, since my companion (hetairos) is absent. There is a public statement of the messmates (contubernales) on record. The doors are on the ground. Let the scribe (scriba) come,
32    let him depose among the records and acknowledge those who went up, and who is the one who went up. For I did not learn who is the one who went up." Filammon said: "The slave acknowledges that he held the hands
33    [of my] son and struck (him)."
34    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Why did you attack the councillor (bouleutes) in the evening and inflict wounds upon his brow?" Acholius said:
35    "I beseech your Excellency, I did not attack, but he himself attacked me. Surely it was my fate that I fell upon him late."
36    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Who inflicted the wound?" Acholius said: "The little boy."
37    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "What does the one who received the blow say?" Filammon said: "One held his hands, another threw him on the ground and wished to kill him for the sake of the public
38    gold; the one held his hands, the other gave my son (a blow) with a stone, another kicked. His whole body is beaten. By Providence, he nearly died."
39    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Who struck (him)? Say plainly." Filammon said: "The fellow-slaves of this man."
40    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Did the one present strike (him), or also
41    another?" Filammon said: "I do not know which of them it is. They do not come up to us by day, much less by night." Herminus the advocate said: "He himself,
42    the household slave, acknowledged that one held his hands, others attacked and struck. And the same things were deposed also by a trustworthy witness, a leading man of the people of Hermopolis; and it remains that the due punishment be brought forth
43    against those who attacked the councillor (bouleutes)." Senecion the superstator said: "By persuasive argument they seek to retain what was plundered. The doors lie (on the ground). It is testimony. For the ten-thousandth time I deposed that the doors lie (there),
44    and I request that the scribe (scriba) come in and state: 'The house is uninhabitable for the rest.'"
45    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "And yet the household slave does not allege these things." Senecion said: "Your Excellency did not seek (it); let your Excellency examine (it)."
46    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Why did you (pl.) attack Asyncritios?" Acholius said: "We did not attack; he himself attacked."
47    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "In what places?" Acholius said: "In that lane (rhyme)."
48    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Let Filammon say who are those who took away the gold of his son." Filammon said: "These slaves."
49    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "How much gold?" Filammon said: "About ten gold pieces or twelve." Senecion the superstator said: "But the account of my companion Sergios is one thousand four hundred (drachmas) of silver."
50    "I request your Splendour to order the scribe (scriba) to be brought in and to state that the doors lie on the ground; and I have brought the scribe, I have made him a witness, and the scribe is ready to depose among the records whose …"
51    "Who are those who attacked? Let him suggest who it is. There were thirty others, as he says, with them. For I do not know, for I was not with them. Let the scribe (scriba) be examined."
52    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Let the scribe (scriba) be brought in." Gennadius, adiutor of the records (commentarii), said: "He was ordered just now to follow the night-strategos according to the command of your Splendour, on account of
53    the production of those denounced by the councillors (bouleutai) to the kephalaiotes." Senecion said: "I brought the scribe and handed him over to the proximus."
54    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "What do you need of the scribe (scriba)?" Senecion said: "Your Excellency sought witnesses, that they (we?) attacked the dwelling (hospitium) of my colleague (collega)." Filammon said: "My son
55    nearly died from the blows."
56    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Why did you attack the councillor (bouleutes)?" And to the staff (officium) he said: "Let him be beaten." And when he had been struck with ox-hide whips (buneuris),
57    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Do not beat free men." And to the staff (officium) he said: "Spare (him)." And when he had been spared,
58    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Say where is the gold which you plundered." Acholius said: "He took off his cloak (himation) and gave it [to] the woman accompanying him. I did not see (it)."
59    Flavius Leontius Beronicianus, vir clarissimus, praeses of the Thebaid, said: "Prove against him that he took your gold." Filammon said: "In the fight he loosed (it) from the wrist-band (sleeve) of my son and plundered (it); one held him and
60    he acknowledges that Gorgonios bound his hands." Herminus the advocate said: "We request that the other household slaves who assisted him be present." Filammon said: "Stergorios struck him on the temple of his head."
61    Senecion said: "Let him depose whether he was alone or others were with him, so that it may be secure for us, so that the scribe (scriba) may come and state (it)."
