[META]
id:       P.LIPS 1.2
label:    P.LIPS 1.2
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     99 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (99 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag (Kauf) — Land — Agoranome
tm:       81
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lips;1;2
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλευόντων Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Βερενίκης τῆς ἀδελφῆς Θεῶν Φιλομητόρων
r.2    ἔτους ιϛ ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Θῶθ κα ἐν Παθύρει ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου
r.3    τοῦ παρὰ Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου.
r.4    ἀπέδοτο Τιτῶς Πατοῦτος Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν ξ μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς πρεσβυτέρου υἱοῦ Ψεννήσιος τοῦ Ἁρσιήσιος Πέρσου τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὡς ἐτῶν ν μέσου μελάνχρωτος ὑποκλάστου ἀναφαλάντου μακροπροσώπου
r.5    εὐθυρίνου, ὀφθαλμὸν δεξιὸν βεβλαμμένου ἀπὸ τῆς ὑπαρχούσης αὐτῇ καὶ τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς γῆς σιτοφόρου ἀδιαιρέτου ἐν τῇ ταινίᾳ Παθύρεως λεγομένης Πκρῶ Κοήτιος τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῇ μέρος οὗ γείτονες νότου γῆ
r.6    Σλήπιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πανᾶτος, ἀπηλιώτου ποταμὸς, λιβὸς γῆ Ἁραμῆτος ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο
r.7    Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος ὡς ἐτῶν μ χαλκοῦ δραχμὰς χιλίας διακοσίας. προπωλήτρια καὶ βεβαιώτρια
r.8    τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Τιτῶς ἡ ἀποδομένη ἣν ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.9    Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Πανίσκου κεχρημάτικα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Ptolemy called Alexander and Berenice his sister, the Philometer gods
2     year 16, in the office of priests and priestesses and the basket-carrier of those existing, month of Thoth 21, in Pathyris before Hermius
3     of the one from Paniscus, agoranome.
4     sold Titos daughter of Pataout, Persian woman, of age 60, medium, olive-complexioned, long-faced, straight-nosed, with her guardian her elder son Psennesis of Arsihesis, Persian of the descended line, of age 50, medium, dark-complexioned, curly-haired, bald-topped, long-faced
5     straight-nosed, his right eye having been injured, from the land belonging to her and to her brothers, grain-producing, undivided in the district of Pathyris called Pkrō Koition, the part allotted to her, whose neighbors on the south [is] land
6     of Slepius, on the north [is] land of Panatus, on the east [is] the river, on the west [is] land of Harametes or whoever may be neighbors on all sides. [He] bought
7     Petearsemtheus of Panochonius, of age 40, [for] bronze drachmas one thousand two hundred. The seller and guarantor
8     of all things according to this purchase Titos the one who sold, which Petearsemtheus the buyer received.
9     Hermias the one from Paniscus, [has certified].