[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.1206
label:    P.LOND 3.1206
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     99 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (99 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land — Priester
tm:       93
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;1206
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ιε Παῦνι γ.
r.2    ὠνὴ Πανοβχούνιος
r.3    Τοτοήους γῆς
r.4    σφραγῖσι β ἣν ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Τοβκενουπιος
r.5    καὶ Ταθωτιος τῶν
r.6    Πατῆτος τοῦ Καλλίου
r.7    ἐν τῷ γ ἔτει Χοιὰχ ια
r.8    ἐπὶ τοῦ ἐν Διοσπόλει
r.9    τῆι μεγάλῃ ἀρχείου
r.10   ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Πακοίβιος
r.11   χαλκοῦ ταλάντων β
r.12   βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Βερενίκης τῆς ἀδελφῆς θεῶν Φιλομητόρων ἔτους ιε
r.13   ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Παῦνι γ ἐν Παθύρει ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου τοῦ παρὰ Πανίσκου
r.14   ἀγορανόμου. ἀπέδοτο Πανοβχοῦνις Τοτοήους Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὡς ἐτῶν ξ ἐλάσσων ἢ μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν ὦτα μέγαλα τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῷ μερίδα γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου ἀδιαιρέτου τῆς οὔσης ἐν τῷ περὶ Πάθυριν
r.15   πεδίωι ἀπὸ σφραγίδων δυσὶν ἐν Τιαβωνει ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Τοβκενούπιος καὶ Ταθώτιος τῶν Πατῆτος τοῦ Καλλίου
r.16   ἐν τῶι γ ἔτει Χοιὰχ ια καὶ ὠνὴν τέθεικαν ἐπὶ τοῦ ἐν Διοσπόλει τῇ μεγάληι ἀρχείου ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου ἀγορανόμου, γείτονες
r.17   τῆς μιᾶς νότου γῆ Χεσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπάιτος, βορρᾶ γῆ Παθώτου τοῦ Πανομιέως, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Θράσωνος καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν,
r.18   λιβὸς περίχωμα, τῆς δʼ ἄλλης νότου γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Ὥρου καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, βορρᾶ γῆ Χενσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπάιτος ἀπηλιώτου
r.19   γῆ Ἀέους, λιβὸς περίχωμα ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Πακοίβιος ἱερεὺς Σούχου καὶ Ἀφροδίτης
r.20   ὡς ἐτῶν ν χαλκοῦ ταλάντων δύο . βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πανοβχοῦνις ὁ ἀποδόμενος ὃν ἐδέξατο
r.21   Πετεαρσεμθεῦς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.22   Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Πανίσκου κεχρημάτικα

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 15, Pauni 3.
2     Purchase by Panobchounis
3     son of Totoes, of land:
4     2 plots, which he bought from Tobkenoupis
5     and Tathotis, the
6     (children) of Pates son of Kallias,
7     in the 3rd year, Choiak 11,
8     before the office in Diospolis
9     the Great.
10    Petearsemtheus son of Pakoibis bought (it)
11    for 2 talents of bronze.
12    In the reign of Ptolemy surnamed Alexander and of Berenike his sister, the Father-loving Gods, year 15,
13    the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros being those in office, in the month Pauni the 3rd, in Pathyris, before Hermias the deputy of Paniskos
14    the agoranomos. Panobchounis son of Totoes, a Persian of the epigone, about 60 years old, shorter than middling, honey-skinned, with straight hair, long-faced, straight-nosed, large ears, sold the share belonging to him of arable mainland grain-bearing land, undivided, lying in the plain around Pathyris,
15    from two plots in Tiabonei, which he himself also had bought from Tobkenoupis and Tathotis, the children of Pates son of Kallias,
16    in the 3rd year, Choiak 11, and they registered the purchase before the office in Diospolis the Great, in the term of Apollonios the agoranomos. Neighbors:
17    of the one (plot): on the south, the land of Chesthotes son of Melipais; on the north, the land of Pathotes son of Panomieus; on the east, the land of Thrason and his brothers;
18    on the west, an embankment; of the other (plot): on the south, the land of Patous son of Horos and his brothers; on the north, the land of Chensthotes son of Melipais; on the east,
19    the land of Aeous; on the west, an embankment; or whoever the neighbors may be on all sides. Petearsemtheus son of Pakoibis bought (it), priest of Souchos and Aphrodite,
20    about 50 years old, for two talents of bronze. Guarantor of all matters relating to this purchase is Panobchounis the seller, whom Petearsemtheus
21    the buyer accepted.
22    I, Hermias the deputy of Paniskos, have transacted (this).
