[META]
id:       P.LOUVRE 3.234
label:    P.LOUVRE 3.234
name:     Letter — Arsinoites
genre:    letters
date:     601 CE – 700 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     Paris
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Arsinoites (601 CE – 700 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Zusendung von Farbstoffe — Pergamente — christlich — Reliquien — Kleider des Heiligen — Vertreibung von Dämonen — Erstlingsopfer
tm:       78710
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.louvre;3;234
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ἐν]ταῦθα ἵνα μὴ σαπῶσιν. ἓν δὲ τριμήσιον ῥουσαίων καὶ ἓν κριμνῶν καὶ ἓν πορφυροῦν
r.2    παρακαλῶ ἀγοράσαι καὶ πέμψαι μοι. ποίησον δὲ μίαν ἀρτάβην ἐρεβίνθων Φαρακλᾷ καὶ πέμψον μοι,
r.3    καὶ ἀγόρασον δύο νομισμάτια μεμβραινῶν καλῶν τελείων καὶ πέμψον μοι. διὰ τὸν κύριον οὖν
r.4    εἴ τι ἐκόπωσα τὰ κοινὰ τέκνα καὶ ἔγραψαν, αγ … κ[α]ὶ μέμψομαι, ἵνα μὴ πάλιν κοπώσω αὐτοὺς καὶ
r.5    γράψουσιν. ἔμαθον δὲ ὅτι Θεοδότη ἐδαιμονίσθη, καὶ λαβοῦσα μικρὸν ἐκ τοῦ στιχαρίου τοῦ
r.6    προφήτου Σινουθίου ἔπεμψα διὰ Ἐπιμάχου, ἵνα τοῦτο βάλητε αὐτῇ, καὶ ἐὰν μὴ ὑγιάνῃ,
r.7    πέμψον μοι αὐτήν. ἐγὼ δὲ Πέτρος γράφω τῇ θεοφυλάκτῳ μου κυρίᾳ ὅτι ἡ μεγάλη τῶν Ἀββα Σινούθου
r.8    παρεκάλεσέν με γράψαι καὶ παρακαλέσαι ὑμᾶς ἵνα ποιήσητε διὰ Θεόν, ὡς ἵνα ὗπὲρ ἀπαρχῆς
r.9    τοῦ μακαρίτου Ἀπφοῦ … ειτε καὶ στείλητε αὐτῇ τὴν [εὐ]λ[ο]γί[α]ν τὴν πεμφθεῖσαν σοι, κυρία,
r.10   ἐξαυτῆς διὰ Ἰωάννου τοῦ καμηλίτου τοῦ ἐξοδι … [ν]ομισμάτια … π … ρ … λογ … καλα … σμ … ες ἡμῶν
r.11   ἐνταῦθα, καὶ οὐδὲν πλέον ἐστί. καὶ παρα[κα]λεῖ τὰ ἀντίγραφα πάλιν γράψαι μοι πρὸς ὃ ἔγραψα ὑμῖν,
r.12   καὶ μὴ πάλιν ἄλλα ἀντʼ ἄλλων γράψητε. ἄλλα γὰρ γράφω καὶ περὶ ἄλλων δέχομαι.
r.13   γνῶσις τῶν πεμφθέντων ὑμῖν ἐκ τῆς δεσποίνης ἡμῶν τῆς ἀμμάδος· εἰς λόγον τοῦ κυρίου σαβάνων ζυγὴ α·
r.14   τῷ κυρίῳ Ἰωάννῃ καὶ τῷ κυρίῳ Γεωργίῳ σκιώρια μικρὰ β· τοῖς κυρίοις σὺν Θεοδοσίᾳ τῇ θεοφυλάκτῳ
r.15   κιστία μικρ γ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … here, so that they do not rot. And one trimision-coin's worth of red(-dyed cloth) and one of bran-coloured and one of purple
2     I ask you to buy and send to me. And make up one artaba of chickpeas for Pharaklas and send (it) to me,
3     and buy two solidi's worth of fine, perfect membrane(-parchments?) and send (them) to me. So, for the Lord's sake,
4     if I have troubled the common children at all and they wrote, … and I shall blame (myself), so that I do not trouble them again and
5     they write. I have learned that Theodote was possessed by a demon, and taking a little from the tunic of the
6     prophet Sinouthios I sent (it) through Epimachos, so that you may apply this to her; and if she does not get well,
7     send her to me. And I, Petros, write to my God-protected lady, that the great (lady?) of the Apa Sinouthios (monastery)
8     entreated me to write and to entreat you to act, for God's sake, so that on behalf of the first-fruits
9     of the late Apphous … you may … and send to her the blessing(-gift) sent to you, lady,
10    at once through Ioannes the camel-driver, the … solidi … fine … of ours
11    here, and there is nothing more. And she asks (you) to write back the copies again to me in answer to what I wrote to you,
12    and not to write again other things instead of others. For I write of some things and receive answers about others.
13    Statement of the things sent to you from our mistress the lady-mother: for the account of the lord, of towels, 1 pair;
14    to the lord Ioannes and the lord Georgios, small parasols(?), 2; to the lords with Theodosia the God-protected,
15    small caskets, 3.
