[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.881
label:    P.LOND 3.881
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     108 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (108 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land
tm:       86
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;881
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους θ Μεχεὶρ κγ.
r.2    ἀπέδοτο Πμόις Θοτορταίου πέμπτον μέρος ἀπὸ
r.3    τετάρτου μέρους γῆς καλουμένης
r.4    Τέλωνος, ἐπρίατο
r.5    Πετεαρσεμθεῦς
r.6    καὶ οἱ ἀδελφοὶ ὄντες δ
r.7    τῶν Πανοβχούνιος χαλκοῦ ταλάντων γ.
r.8    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων
r.9    ἔτους θ, ἐφʼ ἱερέως βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου
r.10   θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος Σωτῆρος Ἀλεξάνδρου
r.11   καὶ θεῶν Σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν Εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων
r.12   καὶ θεῶν Ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεοῦ Εὐπάτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλοπάτορος Νέου
r.13   καὶ θεοῦ Εὐεργέτου καὶ θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων ἱεροῦ πώλου Ἴσιδος μεγάλης μητρὸς
r.14   θεῶν, ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης Εὐεργέτιδος, κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου, ἱερείας Ἀρσινόης
r.15   Φιλοπάτορος τῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι,
r.16   ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερισσῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων
r.17   καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Μεχεὶρ κγ ἐν Παθύρει ἐπὶ Σώσου ἀγορανόμου.
r.18   ἀπέδοτο Πμόις Θοτορταίου Πέρσης τῶν προσγράφων ὡς ἐτῶν μ μέσος μελίχρως
r.19   τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῷ πέμπτην μερίδα
r.20   ἀπὸ τετάρτης μερίδος τῆς ὅλης γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου ἐν τῷ περὶ Πάθυριν πεδίῳ ἄρουραν α δ
r.21   καὶ τοῦ ἐπιβάλλοντος χαλάσματος ἀπὸ ἀρουρῶν κε καλουμένη[ς] Τέλωνος, γείτονες τῆς
r.22   μερίδος νότου γῆ καὶ ἀμπελὼν Ταθώτιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Ὥρου καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν,
r.23   ἀπηλιώτου ἀμπελὼν Κάνωπος καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, λιβὸς διῶρυξ χῶμα ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι ἐάν τι ἄλλο
r.24   χάλασμα μετὰ τὴν ἄρουραν α δ κυριεύσουσι
r.25   γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Κοβαεθῆσις καὶ Πετεαρσεμθεῦς
r.26   καὶ Πετεσοῦχος καὶ Φαγῶνις καὶ Ψεννῆσις τῶν
r.27   Πανοβχούνιος χαλκοῦ ταλάντων γ. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς Πμόις ὁ ἀποδόμενος ὃν ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς καὶ οἱ ἀδελφοὶ οἱ πριάμενοι.
r.28   Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Σώσου κεχρημάτικα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 9, Mecheir 23.
2     Pmois son of Thotortaios sold a fifth part of
3     a fourth part of the land called
4     (that) of Telon; there bought (it)
5     Petearsemtheus
6     and his brothers, being four,
7     the (sons) of Panobchounis, for 3 talents of bronze.
8     In the reign of Cleopatra and of King Ptolemy, the Father-loving Savior Gods,
9     year 9, in the priesthood of the (priest) of King Ptolemy
10    the God Father-loving Savior Alexander
11    and of the Savior Gods and the Brother Gods and the Benefactor Gods and the Father-loving Gods
12    and the Manifest Gods and the God Eupator and the God Philometor and the God Philopator the Younger
13    and the God Benefactor and the Father-loving Savior Gods; of the sacred foal of Isis the great mother
14    of the gods; of the prize-bearer of Berenike the Benefactress; of the kanephoros of Arsinoe Philadelphos; of the priestess of Arsinoe
15    Philopator, those in office in Alexandria;
16    and in Ptolemais of the Thebaid, in the term of the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros in office
17    and being so, in the month Mecheir 23, in Pathyris, in the term of Sosos the agoranomos.
18    Pmois son of Thotortaios, a Persian of those additionally registered, about 40 years old, middling, honey-skinned,
19    with straight hair, long-faced, straight-nosed, sold the fifth share belonging to him
20    from the fourth share of the whole arable grain-bearing mainland land in the plain around Pathyris, 1¼ aroura,
21    and of the share of waste-land falling to him from 25 arouras of the (land) called (that) of Telon. Neighbors of the
22    share: on the south, the land and vineyard of Tathotis; on the north, the land of Patous son of Horos and his brothers;
23    on the east, the vineyard of Kanopos and his brothers; on the west, a canal and embankment; or whoever they may be, and if any other
24    waste-land beyond the 1¼ aroura, they shall be masters of it.
25    Neighbors on all sides. There bought (it) Kobaethesis and Petearsemtheus
26    and Petesouchos and Phagonis and Psennesis, the
27    (sons) of Panobchounis, for 3 talents of bronze. Fore-seller and guarantor is Pmois the seller, whom Petearsemtheus and his brothers, the buyers, accepted.
28    I, Hermias the deputy of Sosos, have transacted (this).
