[META]
id:       P.LOND 6.1914
label:    P.LOND 6.1914
name:     Letter — Herakleopolites bzw. Kynopolites
genre:    letters
date:     335 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Herakleopolites bzw. Kynopolites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Herakleopolites bzw. Kynopolites (335 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Kallistos an Apa Paieon und Patabeit — Mönche — Schisma — Meletianer
tm:       16852
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;6;1914
lat:      28.6142546567
lon:      30.8862097107

[GREEK]
r.1    τῷ ἀγαπητῷ ἀδελφῷ ἄπα Παιηοῦ καὶ Παταβεὶτ πρεσβυτέροις Καλ λιστος ἐν
r.2    κυρίῳ θεῷ χαίρειν. γινώσκειν ὑμᾶς θέλομεν τὰ πραχθέντα ἐνταῦθα
r.3    πράγματα· ἐξάφινα γὰρ ἠκούσατε ἃ ἐπάθαμεν ἐν τῇ νυκτὶ ἐκείνῃ ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ Ἡρακλέου τοῦ κο[μ]μενταρησίου. εἰσὶν γὰρ καί τινες ἀδελφοὶ ἐκ τῶν ἐλ[θ]όντων πρὸς ὑμᾶς
r.4    μεθʼ ἡμῶν ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ καὶ δύνονται καὶ αὐτοὶ τὰ πραχθέντα [ὑ]μῖν ἀναγ[γ]εῖλαι. μετὰ
r.5    γὰρ τὴν ἡμέραν ἐκείνη[ν] ἐν τῇ τετράδι καὶ εἰκάδι τοῦ Παχ[ὼ]ν μηνὸς Ἰσὰκ
r.6    ὁ ἐπίσκοπος ἀπὸ Λητοῦς ἦλθεν πρὸς Ἡραείσκον ἐν Ἀλεξα[νδρ]ίᾳ, καὶ ἠθέλησεν
r.7    γεύσασθαι μετὰ τοῦ ἐπισκόπου ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ. ἀκούσαν[τε]ς οὖν οἱ διαφέροντες Ἀθανασίου καὶ ἤλθασιν φέροντες μεθʼ ἑαυτῶν στρατιώτας τοῦ δουκὸς καὶ τῆς
r.8    παρεμβολῆς, οἰνώμενοι ἤλθασιν ὥρᾳ ἐνάτῃ συγκλείσαντες τὴν [π]αρεμβολὴν βουλόμε[νοι]
r.9    καὶ αὐτὸν καὶ τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς πιάσαι. ἀκούσαντες οὖν τινὲς στρατιῶται [ο]ἱ ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ καὶ
r.10   φόβον θεοῦ ἔχοντες ἐν τῇ καρδίᾳ ἦρκαν αὐτοὺς καὶ ἔκρυψαν ἐν ταῖς κέλ λαις ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ.
r.11   καὶ ἐκείνων μὴ εὑρεθέντων ἐγβάντων αὐτῶν εὗραν τέσσαρας ἀδελφοὺς ἐρχομένους ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ, καὶ κατακόψαντες αὐτοὺς καὶ αἱμαρρόεις
r.12   ποιησάμενοι ὥστε αὐτοὺς κινδυνεῦσαι καὶ ἐξέβαλο
r.13   αὐτοῦ ἔξω τῆς Νικοπόλεως. καὶ μετὰ [τὸ] τούτους ἐκβαλεῖν ἀπήλθασιν πάλιν ἐπὶ τὴν πύλην τοῦ
r.14   Ἡλίου ἐν τῇ μονῇ ἐν ᾗ εἰσὶν ἐπιξενούμενοι οἱ ἀδελφοὶ καὶ πιάσαντες ἄλ λους πέντε ἐκεῖ εἶ[ρ]ξαν
r.15   αὐτοὺς ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ ὀψίας, καὶ συγκλείσαντες αὐτοὺς μέχρις τοῦ τ[ὸ]ν πραιπόσιτον προελθεῖν
r.16   ἐν τοῖς σίγνοις τὸ πρὸς πρωὶ καὶ λαβὼν αὐτοὺς ὁ πραιπόσιτος καὶ ὁ σκρίβας καὶ αὐτοὺς ἐκέλευσεν ἐγβληθῆναι ἐκτὸς τῆς Νικοπόλεως· καὶ τὸν μονάριν Ἡρακλίδην δήσαντες καὶ ὑβρίσαντες
r.17   ἐνέτειλαν τῷ αὐτῷ ἐπαπειλούμενοι, ὅτι κατὰ ποίαν αἰτίαν τοὺς μ[ο]ναχοὺς τῶν Μελιτιανῶν
r.18   εἴασας ἐν τῇ μονῇ; καὶ ἄλ λον ἀδελφὸν Ἄμ μωνα ὄντα ἐν τῇ παρεμβ[ο]λῇ [κ]αὶ αὐτὸν ὑποδεχόμενον
r.19   τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς συνέκλεισαν ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ, παρήγ[γ]ειλαν δὲ αὐτῷ ὥστε μὴ ὑποδέχεσθαι αὐτὸν μοναχοὺς ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ αὐτοῦ. ἄλλος γὰρ ἀδελφὸς οὐκ ἔστιν εἰ μὴ οὗ[τοι οἱ] δύο ὑποδέχομενοι τοὺς
r.20   ἀδελφούς· ἐποίησαν αὐτοὺς δειλανθῆναι. θλιβόμεθα οὖν πάνυ διειρ[γμέ]νοι ὑπὸ αὐτῶν κατὰ τόπον. ἐπιλυπούμεθα οὖν ὅτι οὐκ ἐπιτρέπουσιν ἡμῖν πρὸς τ[ὸν] πάπαν Ἡραείσκον ἀπελθεῖν
r.21   καὶ ἐπισκέψασθαι αὐτόν. ἐν τῇ νυκτὶ γὰρ ἐν ᾗ ὑβρίσθησαν οἱ ἀδελφοὶ ὁ πραι[π]όσιτος τῶν στρατιωτῶν ἔπεμψεν φάσιν τῷ ἐπισκόπῳ λέγων ὅτι ἡμάρτησα καὶ ἐπαρῳνήθην ἐν τῇ νυκτὶ ὅτι τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς
r.22   ὕβρισα. ἐποίησεν δὲ καὶ ἀγάπην ἐν ἐκείνῃ τῇ ᾑμέρᾳ Ἑλ λην ὢν δ[ιὰ] τὸ ἁμάρτημα ὃ ἐποίησεν.
r.23   Ἀθανάσιος δὲ μεγάλως ἀθυμεῖ καὶ αὐτὸς παρέχει ἡμῖν κάματον διὰ τὰ γραφόμενα καὶ τὰς
r.24   φάσεις τὰς ἐρχομένας αὐτ[ῷ] ἀ[πὸ] ἔξωθεν, ἐπειδὴ ὁ β[α]σιλεὺς Μακάριον εὑρὼν ἔξω ἐν τῷ
r.25   κομιτάτῳ … υρῳ γράψας … ανυους ὅτι δήσας αὐτὸν καὶ … επι
r.26   … α ἀπο … α ἵνα αὐ[το ] … εσται. ἀπελθόντων οὖν Ἀρχελάου τοῦ … [ καὶ ] … μετὰ Ἀθαν[ασίου το]ῦ υἱου Καπίτωνος,
r.27   βουλόμενοι ἀποσπάσαι Μακάριον, ἡ φάσις οὖν ἀπῆλθεν πρὸς ἄπα Ἰωάν νην ἐν Ἀντιοχίᾳ·
r.28   ἦλθεν καὶ πιάσας αὐτοὺς κατέσχεν αὐτούς, ἐπειδὴ ἐπὶ συκοφαντίᾳ καὶ δεινὰ ἦσαν γράψαντες κατὰ Ἡραείσκου, καὶ αὐτὸς Ἀρχέλαος τὰ γ[ρ]άμματα ἦρκεν ἔξω. ὁ θεὸς οὖν ἐποίησεν
r.29   καὶ τοὺς τρεῖς ἔξω καὶ ἔχει ἔξω. τοῦτʼ οὖν ἤκουσεν Ἀθανάσιος ὅτι Ἀρχέλαος
r.30   συνεσχέθη, πάνυ ἀθυμεῖ Ἀθανάσιος. πολλαχῶς οὖν ἦλθαν ἐπὶ
r.31   αὐτὸν καὶ μέχρις νῦν οὐκ ἀπεδήμησεν· ἐνεβάλετο δ[ὲ] τὰ σκεύη αὐτοῦ ἐν τῇ θαλάσ σῃ ὡς αὐτοῦ ἀποδημοῦντος, καὶ πάλιν εἰς δεύτερον ἤνε[γ]κεν τὰ σκεύη
r.32   ἀπὸ τοῦ πλοίου, μὴ βουλόμενος ἀ[π]οδημῆ[σ]α[ι] … ψαι … ἔγρ[α]ψα ἵνα
r.33   γνοῖτε ἐν ποίᾳ θλίψει ἐσμέν· ἤνε[γ]κεν γὰρ ἐπίσκοπον τῆς κάτω χώρας
r.34   καὶ συνέκλεισεν αὐτὸν ἐν τῷ μακέλ λῳ, καὶ πρεσβύτερον τῶν αὐτῶν μερῶν
r.35   συνέκλεισεν καὶ αὐτὸν ἐν τῷ ἀπλικίτῳ καὶ διάκονα ἐν τῇ μεγίστῃ φυλακῇ, καὶ μέχρις
r.36   τῆς ὀγδόης καὶ εἰκάδος τοῦ Παχὼν μηνὸς καὶ Ἡραείσκος συγκεκλεισμένος ἐστὶν ἐν τῇ παρεμβολῇ εὐχαριστῶ μὲν τῷ δεσπότῃ θεῷ ὅτι ἐπαύθησαν αἱ πληγαὶ ἃς εἶχεν καὶ ἐπὶ τῇ ἑβδόμῃ καὶ εἰκάδι ἐποίησεν ἐπισκόπους ἕπτα ἀποδημῆσαι· Ἔμις καὶ Πέτρος εἰς αὐτούς ἐστιν, υἱὸς Τουβέστις. μὴ ἀμελήσητε οὖν
r.37   περὶ ἡμῶν, ἀδελφοί, ἐπειδὴ τὰ ψωμία ἀφῆκαν ὀπίσω, ἵνα διὰ τὸν ἐπίσκοπον μήπως ἔξω ἀρθῇ ἵνα τηρῇ αὐτὰ μετʼ αὐτοῦ. ἐγὼ γὰρ ἀγοράζων ἄρτους εἰς διατροφὴν ἠγόρασα ἀρτάβην σίτου ταλάντων ιδ. ἐπὰν οὖν εὕρητε εἰδήμονα ἀποστείλατέ μοι ὀλίγα ψωμία. ἀσπάζομαι τὸν πατέρα μου Πραυοῦν καὶ πάντας τοὺς
r.38   ἀδελφοὺς τοὺς ὄντας μετʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ Θέονα τὸν διάκονα Σαπρίωνα καὶ Ὡρίωνα
r.39   καὶ Παπνούτιν καὶ ἄπα Σαρμάτην καὶ Παώμιν καὶ Πιὸρ καὶ Εὐδαίμωνα καὶ ἄπα Τρύφωνα
r.40   καὶ Γερόντιον καὶ ἄπα Ἱέρακα καὶ ἄπα Ἑλενᾶν καὶ ἄπα Ἁρηοῦν καὶ ἄπα Πιὰμ καὶ Κορνήλιν
r.41   καὶ Πισάτιν καὶ Κολλοῦθον καὶ Ἰωσὴπ καὶ τὰ παιδία αὐτοῦ καὶ Φίνες. μὴ ἀμελήσῃς οὖν,
r.42   πάτερ, ἀποστεῖλαι πρὸς Ψαεῖν ἀπὸ Τερὸτ ἕνεκεν τῆς ἀρτάβης τοῦ σίτου, καὶ ποίησον
r.43   Τουᾶν ἀπὸ Ταμούρω ἵνα καὶ αὐτὸς ἀπέλθῃ εἰς Ταμούρω ἕνεκεν τῆς ἀρτάβης τοῦ σίτου·
r.44   αἱ ἡμέραι γάρ εἰσιν τοῦ λαβεῖν αὐτοὺς αὐτάς. ἀσπάζομαι Παῦλον τὸν ἀναγνώστην καὶ ἄπα
r.45   Ἠλί[α]ν καὶ Ἀνουβᾶν μέγαν καὶ Ἀνουβᾶν μικρὸν καὶ Παμούτιν καὶ Τιτούην καὶ τὰ παιδία αὐτοῦ καὶ Ὃρ
r.46   ἀπὸ Τουμνακὼν καὶ πάντας τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς αὐτοῦ τοὺς μετʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ Παπνούτιν καὶ Λεονίδην τὸν ἀδελφὸν α[ὐ]τ[οῦ] καὶ τὸν ἀδελφὸν τὸν ἄλ λον τὸν μετʼ αὐτῶν.
r.47   ἄ[πα Παιηοῦ καὶ Παταβεὶτ] [παρὰ] Κα[λ]λίστου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To the beloved brothers Apa Paieous and Patabeit, presbyters, Callistus, in
2     the Lord God, greeting. We wish you to know the things that have been done
3     here; for suddenly you heard what we suffered on that night in the house of Herakles the commentariensis. For there are also some brothers among those who came to you
4     with us in the house, and they too are able to report to you the things that have been done. For after
5     that day, on the twenty-fourth of the month Pachon, Isak
6     the bishop from Letopolis came to Heraiskos in Alexandria, and he wished
7     to dine with the bishop in the camp. So the partisans of Athanasios, having heard, came bringing with them soldiers of the duke and of the
8     camp; drunk, they came at the ninth hour, having shut up the camp, wishing
9     to seize both him and the brothers. So some soldiers in the camp, having heard, and
10    having the fear of God in their heart, took them and hid them in the cells in the camp.
11    And those men not being found, when they came out they found four brothers coming into the camp, and having cut them down and caused bleeding-wounds
12    so that they were in danger, they also cast them
13    outside Nikopolis. And after casting these out they went off again to the gate of the
14    Sun, to the monastery in which the brothers are lodged as guests, and seizing another five there they shut
15    them up in the camp in the evening; and having locked them up until the praepositus came forth
16    among the standards toward morning, the praepositus and the scribe took them and ordered them too to be cast out beyond Nikopolis; and the steward Herakleides, having bound and insulted (him),
17    they enjoined upon the same man, threatening him: For what reason did you allow the monks of the Melitians
18    in the monastery? And another brother Ammon, who was in the camp and was himself receiving
19    the brothers, they shut up in the camp, and they charged him not to receive monks in his house. For there is no other brother except these two who receive the
20    brothers; they made them afraid. So we are greatly oppressed, being shut off by them in the place. We are grieved, then, because they do not allow us to go off to the pope Heraiskos
21    and to visit him. For on the night on which the brothers were insulted, the praepositus of the soldiers sent word to the bishop, saying: I sinned and behaved drunkenly in the night because I
22    insulted the brothers. And he also held a love-feast on that day, being a pagan, on account of the sin which he had committed.
23    But Athanasios is greatly downcast, and he himself causes us trouble on account of the things written and the
24    reports coming to him from outside, since the emperor, having found Makarios outside in the
25    court(?) … having written … that having bound him and … upon
26    … from … so that … will be. So when Archelaos the … and … had gone off with Athanasios the son of Kapiton,
27    wishing to drag away Makarios, the report then went off to Apa Ioannes in Antioch;
28    he came and, seizing them, detained them, since they were guilty of false accusation and had written terrible things against Heraiskos, and Archelaos himself took the letters out. God then brought it about
29    that the three are also outside and he keeps them outside. So Athanasios heard this, that Archelaos
30    was detained, and Athanasios is greatly downcast. In many ways then they came upon
31    him, and up to now he has not departed; but he loaded his baggage into the sea(?) as though he were departing, and again a second time he brought the baggage back
32    from the boat, not wishing to depart … I wrote so that
33    you may know in what affliction we are; for he brought a bishop of the lower country
34    and shut him up in the meat-market(?), and a presbyter of the same parts
35    he shut up, him too, in the lodging, and a deacon in the greatest prison, and until
36    the twenty-eighth of the month Pachon Heraiskos too is shut up in the camp. I give thanks indeed to the Lord God that the blows which he had ceased, and on the twenty-seventh he caused seven bishops to depart; Emis and Petros are among them, the son of Toubestis. Do not neglect, then,
37    concerning us, brothers, since they have left the loaves behind, so that on account of the bishop, lest it be carried off outside, he may keep them with himself. For I, buying bread for sustenance, bought an artaba of wheat for 14 talents. So when you find a trustworthy person send me a few loaves. I greet my father Prauous and all the
38    brothers who are with him, and Theon the deacon, and Saprion and Horion
39    and Papnoutis and Apa Sarmates and Paomis and Pior and Eudaimon and Apa Tryphon
40    and Gerontios and Apa Hierax and Apa Helenas and Apa Hareous and Apa Piam and Kornelis
41    and Pisatis and Kollouthos and Iosep and his children and Phines. Do not neglect, then,
42    father, to send to Psais from Terot on account of the artaba of wheat, and make
43    Touas from Tamouro so that he too may go off to Tamouro on account of the artaba of wheat;
44    for these are the days for them to receive them. I greet Paulos the reader and Apa
45    Elias and Anoubas the elder and Anoubas the younger and Pamoutis and Titues and his children and Hor
46    from Toumnakon and all his brothers who are with him, and Papnoutis and Leonides his brother and the other brother who is with them.
47    To A[pa Paieous and Patabeit, from] Callistus.
