[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.883
label:    P.LOND 3.883
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     88 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (88 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land
tm:       88
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;883
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους κϛ Χοιὰχ κα.
r.2    ἀπέδοτο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Ἀλμάφιος
r.3    παστοφόρος τῆς
r.4    Ἀφροδίτης τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῶι τε καὶ
r.5    τοῖς ἀδελφοῖς δωδεκάτην μερίδα γὴν ἤπειρον
r.6    σιτοφόρον τὴν οὖσαν ἐν
r.7    τῶι ἀπὸ βορρᾶ πεδίωι
r.8    Παθύρεως ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς
r.9    ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Ταμούνιος τῆς Πατοῦτος
r.10   ὧν αἱ γειτνίαι δεδήλωνται διὰ τῆς ὠνῆς.
r.11   ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Πανεβχούνιος.
r.12   βασιλευόντων Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Κλεοπάτρας τῆς ἀδελφῆς θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων
r.13   ἔτους ἕκτου καὶ εἰκοστοῦ ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν μηνὸς Χοιὰχ κα ἐν Παθύρει
r.14   ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου ἀγορανόμου τῆς ἄνω τοπαρχίας τοῦ Παθυρίτου.
r.15   ἀπέδοτο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Ἀλμάφιος παστοφόρος τῆς Ἀφροδίτης ὡς ἐτῶν με μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος
r.16   εὐθύριν ὡς ἀριστερὸν τετρημένον τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῶι τε καὶ τοῖς μετόχοις δωδεκάτην μερίδα γῆς
r.17   ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου τῆς οὔσης ἐν τῶι ἀπὸ βορρᾶ πεδίωι Παθύρεως ἀδιαιρέτου λεγομένης Κοήτιος
r.18   ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Ταμούνιος τῆς Πατοῦτος ἐν σφραγῖδι μιᾶι , γείτονες τῆς ὅλης γῆς νότου γῆ
r.19   Καλίβιος πρεσβυτέρας ἣς κρατοῦσιν οἱ υἱοί, βορρᾶ γῆ Φατρέους τοῦ Χενσθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Ἀέους
r.20   τοῦ Ἁρμαχόρου, λιβὸς περίχωμα ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσιν γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς
r.21   Πανεβχούνιος. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πετεαρσεμθεῦς
r.22   Ἀλμάφιος ὁ ἀποδόμενος ὃν ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεῦς Πανεβχούνιος ὁ πριάμενος.
r.23   Ἑρμίας κεχρημάτικα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 26, Choiak 21.
2     Petearsemtheus son of Almaphis,
3     pastophoros of
4     Aphrodite, has sold the (land) belonging to himself and
5     to his brothers, a twelfth share, dry ground,
6     grain-bearing, which is in
7     the plain to the north of
8     Pathyris, which he himself also
9     bought from Tamounis daughter of Patous,
10    of which the neighbors are made clear through the deed of sale.
11    Petearsemtheus son of Panebchounis has bought (it).
12    In the reign of Ptolemy surnamed Alexander and Cleopatra his sister, the Mother-loving Savior Gods,
13    in the twenty-sixth year, under the priests and priestesses and kanephoros who are in office (men and women), in the month Choiak 21, in Pathyris,
14    under Hermias the agoranomos of the upper toparchy of the Pathyrite (nome).
15    Petearsemtheus son of Almaphis, pastophoros of Aphrodite, about 45 years old, of medium (build), honey-colored, with straight hair, long-faced,
16    straight-nosed, with the left ear pierced, has sold the (land) belonging to himself and to his partners, a twelfth share of land,
17    dry ground, grain-bearing, which is in the plain to the north of Pathyris, undivided, called (the land) of Koetis,
18    which he himself also bought from Tamounis daughter of Patous, in a single sealed parcel; the neighbors of the whole land: to the south, the land
19    of Kalibis the elder, which her sons hold; to the north, the land of Phatres son of Chensthotes; to the east, the land of Aeous
20    son of Harmachoros; to the west, an embankment; or whoever the neighbors may be on every side. Petearsemtheus son of
21    Panebchounis has bought (it). The seller-in-advance and guarantor of all things pertaining to this sale is Petearsemtheus
22    son of Almaphis the seller, whom Petearsemtheus son of Panebchounis the buyer has accepted.
23    I, Hermias, have transacted (this).
