[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.1164g
label:    P.LOND 3.1164g
name:     Receipt — Antinoopolis
genre:    receipts
date:     212 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Antinoopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Antinoopolis (212 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Quittung — Rückzahlung — Darlehen — Geld
tm:       22818
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;1164g
lat:      27.8105625
lon:      30.8810025

[GREEK]
r.1    ιϛ Διονυσίου καὶ Κυρίλλης καὶ Τερεῦτος καὶ Φιλαντινόου καὶ Ἀντινόου ἀργυρίου δραχμῶν σ
r.2    ἔτους εἰκοστοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου Ἀντωνίνου Παρθικοῦ Μεγίστου Βρεταννικοῦ Μεγίστου
r.3    Εὐσεβοῦς Σεβαστοῦ μηνὸς Πανήμου Φαρμοῦθι ιϛ. διὰ τῆς Ἀνουβίωνος Ἀμμωνίου Ματιδίου τοῦ καὶ Καλλιτεκνείου
r.4    ἐν Ἀντινοουπόλει χρηματιστικῆς τραπέζης. Διονύσιος καὶ Κύριλλα καὶ Τερεῦς καὶ Φιλαντίνοος καὶ Ἀντίνοος
r.5    ἀφῆλιξ οἱ πέντε ἐκ πατρὸς Πανεχώτου Φλώρου Καλήους παστοφόρου ἱεροῦ Ἕρμου καὶ Ἀφροδίτης καὶ Ἄμμωνος
r.6    καὶ τῶν συννάων θεῶν μεγίστων Ἀντινοουπόλεως μετὰ κυρίου τῶν γυναικῶν τῆς μὲν Κυρίλλης τοῦ ἑαυτῆς
r.7    ἀνδρὸς Χαιρήμονος Ἑρμίου ἱερέως Ἁρησιήους τῆς αὐτῆς Ἀντινόου, τῆς δὲ Τερεῦτος τοῦ προκειμένου αὐτῆς ἀδελφοῦ
r.8    Διονυσίου καὶ ὁ ἀφῆλιξ Ἀντίνοος διὰ τοῦ αὐτοῦ Διονυσίου Φιλαντινόῳ Ὥρου ἱερεῖ τοῦ προκειμένου Ἁρησειήου
r.9    ἀπεσχηκέναι τὸν Φιλαντίνοον παρὰ τῶν περὶ Διονύσιον ἃς ἐδάνεισεν τῷ πατρὶ αὐτῶν Πανεχώτῃ Φλώρου
r.10   μετηλλαχότι ἡνίκα περιῆν τῷ ιε ἔτει τῆς εὐτυχεστάτης ταύτης αὐτοκρατορίας μηνὶ Μεχεὶρ ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς
r.11   διακοσίας γίνονται ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ σ, πεπληροφορῆται δὲ καὶ τῶν τόκων κατὰ μέρος διὰ χειρὸς πάντα εἰς περίλυσιν
r.12   οὗ ὑπήλλαξεν αὐτῷ ὁ Πανεχώτης ἡμίσους μέρους οἰκίας καὶ χρηστηρίων πάντων οὔσης ἐν τῷ β γράμματι πλινθίῳ α
r.13   βορρείῳ πρώτῳ τῆς Ἀντινόου καὶ μηδὲν ἐνκαλεῖν μηδὲ ἐγκαλέσειν τὸν Φιλαντίνοον μηδὲ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτοῦ μηδὲ
r.14   ἄλλους ὑπὲρ αὐτ[ο]ῦ τοῖς περὶ Διονύσιον περὶ ἡστινοσοῦν ὀφειλῆς μηδὲ περὶ ἄλλου τινος ἁπλῶς τῷ καθόλου
r.15   πράγματος ἐνγράφου ἀγράφου καὶ ἀνέδωκεν αὐτοῖς τὸ ἐγδόσιμον τῆς τοῦ δανείου τῆς ὑπαλλαγῆς τῆς διαγραφῆς εἰς ἀκύρωσιν καὶ ἀθέτησιν οὔσης τῆς Βησαρίωνος τοῦ καὶ Ἀμμωνίου ἐπὶ τόπῳ τραπέζης. Φιλαντίνοος
r.16   Ὥρου ἱερεὺς Ἁρησιήου Ἀντινοουπόλεως ἀπέσχον τὰς τῆς περιλύσεως ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας ἐπὶ διαστολαῖς
r.17   πάσαις ταῖς προκειμέναις. Σαραπίων Φιλαντινόου ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ τοῦ πατρός μου μὴ εἰδότος γράμματα. Βησαρίων
r.18   Ἀπίωνος παστοφόρος Ἕρμου μαρτυρῶ. Φιλάντινος Σανσνῶτος παστοφόρος Ὀσειραντινόου μαρτυρῶ.
r.19   Ἀντίνοος ὁ καὶ Ἁρεώτης Φιλαντινοίδος Ὥρου παστοφόρος Ὀσειραντινόου θεοῦ μεγίστου μαρτυρῶ. Δίδυμος Ὀννώφριος ἱερεὺς
r.20   Ἕρμου μαρτυρῶ. Διονύσιος καὶ ἡ ἀδελφή μου διʼ ἐμοῦ Διονυσίου ἐξωδιάσαμεν τὰς τῆς περιλύσεως ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς
r.21   δι[ακοσία]ς ὡς πρόκιται.

[TRANSLATION]
1     16. Of Dionysios and Kyrilla and Tereus and Philantinoos and Antinoos, 200 drachmas of silver.
2     In the twentieth year of Imperator Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, Parthicus Maximus, Britannicus Maximus,
3     Pius Augustus, in the month Panemos = Pharmouthi 16. Through the exchange-bank of Anoubion son of Ammonios, of Matidios also called Kallitekneios,
4     in Antinoopolis. Dionysios and Kyrilla and Tereus and Philantinoos and Antinoos
5     the minor, the five, on the father's side children of Panechotes son of Floros son of Kales, pastophoros of the temple of Hermes and Aphrodite and Ammon
6     and of the associated greatest gods of Antinoopolis, with the guardian of the women — of Kyrilla her own
7     husband Chairemon son of Hermias, priest of Haresiees of the same Antinoos; and of Tereus her aforementioned brother
8     Dionysios; and the minor Antinoos through the same Dionysios — to Philantinoos son of Horos, priest of the aforesaid Haresiees,
9     (acknowledge) that Philantinoos has received back from the party of Dionysios the (sums) which he lent to their father Panechotes son of Floros,
10    now deceased, while he was alive, in the 15th year of this most fortunate imperial reign, in the month Mecheir, of silver
11    two hundred drachmas, total 200 drachmas of silver; and he has been satisfied also in respect of the interest, part by part, by hand, all in full discharge
12    of (the security) which Panechotes mortgaged to him, the half share of a house and of all appurtenances, being in the 2nd letter-block, plot 1,
13    in the first northern (quarter) of Antinoos; and that neither Philantinoos nor those acting for him nor
14    others on his behalf shall make any claim or bring any claim against the party of Dionysios concerning any debt whatsoever, nor concerning any other matter whatsoever in general,
15    a matter written or unwritten; and he gave back to them the deed of issue of the loan, of the mortgage, of the registration, for cancellation and annulment, that of Besarion also called Ammonios at the local bank being (void). Philantinoos
16    son of Horos, priest of Haresiees of Antinoopolis: I have received back the two hundred drachmas of silver of the release, on all
17    the aforesaid terms. I, Sarapion son of Philantinoos, wrote on behalf of my father, who does not know letters. Besarion
18    son of Apion, pastophoros of Hermes, witness. Philantinos son of Sansnos, pastophoros of Oseirantinoos, witness.
19    Antinoos also called Hareotes son of Philantinoides son of Horos, pastophoros of Oseirantinoos the greatest god, witness. Didymos son of Onnophris, priest
20    of Hermes, witness. Dionysios and my sister, through me Dionysios, have paid out the two hundred drachmas of silver of the release,
21    as is set forth.
