[META]
id:       P.LOND 7.1979
label:    P.LOND 7.1979
name:     Letter — Alexandria
genre:    letters
date:     252 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Alexandria
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Alexandria (252 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (geschäftlich) — Demetrios an Zenon — Seereise — Zoll
tm:       1542
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;7;1979
lat:      31.201435
lon:      29.909773

[GREEK]
r.1    Δημήτριος Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. εὖ ἂν ἔχοι εἰ τῶι τε σώματι
r.2    ὑγιαίνεις καὶ ἐν τοῖς ἄλλοις κατὰ λόγον ἀπαλλάσσεις. ὑγίαινον δὲ
r.3    καὶ ἐγώ. γίνωσκε τὸν πατέρ[α τ]ε καὶ Ἀκρίσιον διασεσωιμένους εἰς οἶκον.
r.4    παρόντες γάρ τινες ἐκ Ῥόδου ἀν[ή]γγελλον τὸ ποῖον ὅτι ἐν Ῥόδωι ἦν
r.5    τὸ Τιμοκράτους ἤδη ἐκ Καύνου παραγεγενημένον. καὶ ἐκπλέοντες δὲ κατέλιπον τύλας τε καὶ προσκεφάλαια δερμάτινα, ἃ συνέταξαν ἀποστεῖλαι Κίμωνα εἰ Καῦνον. [τ]έως μὲν οὖν οὐκ ἐκπεποίηκεν
r.6    αὐτῶι ἀπ[ο]στεῖλαι, ὡς ἂν δὲ τάχιστα, ἅμα τῆι ὡραίαι, εὐθέως ἀποστελεῖ.
r.7    ἐγενήθη δὲ τὰ αἴτιον τὸ μὴ ἀναλαβεῖν τὸν ναύκληρον ταῦτα παρὰ τὸ
r.8    μὴ δύνασθαι ἀποτελωνήσασθαι, ἀλλʼ ἡμέρας πλείους ἑλκῦσαι ἕως ὅτου
r.9    καὶ τὸ πλοῖον μετέωρον ὥρμει. ἴσθι δὲ καὶ τὴν μνᾶν τοῦ ἀργυρίου ἣν συνέστησας ἡμᾶς παρὰ Σωστράτου λαβεῖν οὐκ εἰληφότας . ἔδειξε δʼ ἡμῖν
r.10   καὶ Δημήτριος τὸ ὑπόμνημα τὸ παρὰ σοῦ, ἐν ὧι γράφεις ἐκ τ[οῦ] μέλιτος
r.11   δοῦ[ναι] ἡμῖν. τὸ δὲ μέλι πεπραμένον ἤδη ἦν ὑπὸ τῶν περὶ Ἰσοκράτην τὸν
r.12   τραπεζίτην, καὶ οὐκ ἔφασαν ἐκποεῖν οὐδʼ αὑτοῖς τὰ ἀργύριον ἐβουκόλησεν μὲν
r.13   οὖν ἡμᾶς Σώστρατος· συστήσας γὰρ ἡμῖν Προῖτον ἵνα δῶι ἐκ τοῦ μέλιτος, πάλιν
r.14   ἀποσυνέταξεν ἀποτρέχων μηκ[έτ]ι [τὸ] μέλι Προίτωι προέσθαι. ἐβουλόμην
r.15   μὲν οὖν καὶ αὐτὸς ἀναπλεῦσαι πρός σε, ἀλλʼ οὐκ ἐκπεποίηκέ μοι. γράφει γὰρ Ἀντιλέων
r.16   πρός σε ἐπιστολὴν ὑπὲρ μοῦ. ἔρρωσο.
r.17   [ἔτους] λγ, Ἁθὺρ ι. Δημήτριος Ζήνωνι.
r.18   περί τε τῆς μνᾶς τοῦ ἀργυρίου
r.19   ὅτι οὐκ εἴληφεν, καὶ περὶ
r.20   τῶν τυλῶν, ὅτι ἀπολελειμμέναι [εἰσίν.]

[TRANSLATION]
1     Demetrios to Zenon, greeting. It would be well if both in body
2     you are healthy and in other respects are faring reasonably. I too was in health.
3     Know that the father and Akrisios have been brought safely home.
4     For some people present from Rhodes reported the news that in Rhodes there was
5     the (vessel) of Timokrates, already arrived from Kaunos. And on sailing out they left behind mattresses and leather cushions, which they instructed Kimon to send to Kaunos. So for the time being he has not managed
6     to send them to him; but as quickly as possible, at the (next) sailing-season, he will send them at once.
7     The cause was that the shipmaster did not take these on, because of
8     being unable to clear them through customs, but dragged out several days until
9     the boat too lay anchored offshore. Know also that the mina of silver which you arranged for us to receive from Sostratos we have not received. And
10    Demetrios also showed us the memorandum from you, in which you write to give us
11    some of the honey. But the honey had already been sold by the people of Isokrates the
12    banker, and they said they could not produce it; nor did the silver itself avail them. So Sostratos hoodwinked
13    us; for, having introduced Proitos to us so that he might give some of the honey, again
14    he gave counter-orders as he hurried off, that the honey should no longer be handed over to Proitos. I wished
15    indeed to sail up to you myself, but it has not been possible for me. For Antileon is writing
16    to you a letter on my behalf. Farewell.
17    [Year] 33, Hathyr 10. Demetrios to Zenon.
18    Concerning the mina of silver,
19    that he has not received it, and concerning
20    the mattresses, that they are left behind.
