[META]
id:       P.LOND 5.1731
label:    P.LOND 5.1731
name:     Receipt — Syene
genre:    receipts
date:     585 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Syene (585 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Quittung — Geld — Schuld — versäumte Aufzucht — Mutter
tm:       19746
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;5;1731
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλείας τοῦ θειοτάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαυίου Τιβερίου Μαυρικίου τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου
r.2    Αὐτοκράτορος καὶ μεγίστου εὐεργέτου ἔτους τετάρτου καὶ ὑπατείας τοῦ αὐτοῦ δεσπότου
r.3    ἡμῶν ἔτους δευτέρου Θὼθ κγ τῆς τετάρτης ἰνδικτίονος ἐν Συήνῃ.
r.4    Αὐρηλία Τσώνη θυγάτηρ Μηνᾶ ἐκ μητρὸς Ταπίας μοναχὴ ὁρμωμένη ἀπὸ Συήνης
r.5    ἡ καὶ ἑξῆς ὑπογραφέα παρέχουσα τὸν ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς ὑπογράφοντα καὶ μάρτυρας
r.6    τοὺς ἑξῆς κατʼ ἐπιτροπὴν αὐτῆς καὶ αἴτησιν προσμαρτυροῦντας ταύτῃ τῇ παρούσῃ
r.7    ὁμολογίᾳ τῆς ἀμεριμνίας Αὐρηλίᾳ Ταπίᾳ θυγατρὶ Τσίου ἐκ μητρὸς Μαριὰμ
r.8    ἄνευ κυρίου αὐτῆς ἀνδρὸς χρηματίζουσα ἰδίᾳ μου μητρὶ ὁρμωμένῃ ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς
r.9    Συήνης χαίρειν. ἐπειδήπερ πρώην ὁ μακάριός μου πατὴρ Μηνᾶς ἔσχεν σε
r.10   εἰς νομίμου γάμου κοινωνίαν καὶ μετὰ τὴν γέννησίν μου ἔτι νέας οὔσης
r.11   κατὰ διαβολικὴν καὶ σατανικὴν ἐνέργειαν ἀπεχωρίσθης ἀπʼ αὐτοῦ, δεδωκότος
r.12   δέ σοι τοῦ προειρημένου μου πατρὸς Μηνᾶ χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια τέσσαρα καὶ μετὰ τὸ
r.13   προβεβηκέναι με τῇ ἐννόμῳ ἡλικίᾳ ἐπεξῆλθόν σοι ἐνάγουσα ἕνεκα
r.14   τῶν αὐτῶν τεσσάρων νομισμάτων λέγουσα ταῦτά σοι δοθῆναι περὶ τῆς
r.15   ἐκ παιδιόθεν ἀναγκαίας μου τροφῆς. διὰ τὸ οὖν τραφῆναί με ὑπὸ τοῦ
r.16   πατρός μου ἔκβλητον δὲ ὑπὸ σοῦ γενέσθαι καί [σε] κολλᾶσθαι ἑτέρῳ ἀνδρὶ
r.17   ταῦτα ἐπεξῆλθον σοι ζητοῦσα λαβεῖν, σὺ δὲ ἀμφιβάλλεις λέγουσα εἶναι
r.18   τὰ αὐτὰ τέσσαρα νομίσματα ὑπὲρ ἀπολύσεως μου καὶ προικός, καὶ πολλῶν
r.19   λεχθέντων καὶ ἀντιλεχθέντων καὶ δοκιμασθέντων ὕστερον δὲ ἔδοξεν ὥστε
r.20   ἐμὲ τὰ αὐτὰ τέσσαρα νομίσματα δέξασθαι διὰ τὸ ὡς προειρήται ἀνατραφῆναί με
r.21   ὑπὸ τοῦ προειρημένου μου πατρὸς καὶ ἐφʼ ᾧ ἐμὲ μὴ δέξασθαι μήτε λαβεῖν ὑπὲρ σοῦ
r.22   μήτε ἐνάγειν σοι ἢ τοῖς κληρονόμοις σου ἐν τῷ νῦν καὶ ἐν μηδένι καιρῷ κατὰ μηδένα
r.23   τρόπον ἀφορμῇ μηδεμίᾳ· ὅθεν ἐλήλυθα εἰς ταύτην τὴν ἔγγραφον ἀμεριμνίαν
r.24   ἐξ ἧς ὁμολογῶ μηκέτι μηδένα λόγον ἔχειν πρὸς σὲ μήτε πρὸς τοὺς μετὰ σὲ κληρονόμους
r.25   μήτε ἐνάγειν μήτε ἐγκαλεῖν ἢ δίαιταν κινῆσαι κατὰ σοῦ ταύτης ἕνεκεν τῆς ὑποθέσεως
r.26   καὶ μήτε δοῦναι μήτε λαβεῖν ὑπὲρ σοῦ μήτε ἄλλος τις ὑπὲρ ὀνόματος μου ἐπελεύσεσθαί
r.27   σοι ἢ τοῖς κληρονόμοις σου ἢ τέκνοις ἢ ἐγγόνοις σου· εἰ δὲ συμβαίη με κατὰ σοῦ ἐπεξελθεῖν
r.28   ἔν τινι καιρῷ ἢ τοῖς κληρονόμοις σου περὶ οἱουδήποτε πράγματος ἐφʼ ᾧ ἐμὲ παρασχεῖν
r.29   λόγῳ προστίμου παραβάσεως χρυσοῦ οὐγκίαν μίαν ἔργῳ καὶ δυνάμει ἀπαιτουμένην ἐκ τῆς
r.30   ἐμῆς μετρικῆς ὑποστάσεως καὶ μηδὲν ἰσχύειν κατὰ τῶν ἐγγεγραμμένων ταύτῃ
r.31   τῇ παρούσῃ ὁμολογίᾳ τῆς ἀμεριμνίας ἀλλὰ πρὸς τῷ ἄκοντα ἐμμένειν αὐτῇ ὡς ἐν δημοσίῳ ἀρχείῳ γεγενημένῃ διὰ τὸ ἐμοὶ ἀνάγκης μὴ ἐπικειμένης ἢ ἀπάτης ἢ δόλου τινὸς
r.32   ἀλλὰ διὰ τὸ ἐμὲ οὕτω δεδόχθαι καὶ πεπληρῶσθαι τὰ προγεγραμμένα νομισμάτια τέσσαρα
r.33   καὶ ταύτην ἐκθέσθαι σοι τὴν ἔγγραφον ἀσφάλειαν ἤτις κυρία ἔσται καὶ βεβαία καὶ ἀρραγὴς
r.34   καὶ ἀσάλευτος καὶ ἔννομος ἁπανταχοῦ προφερομένη καὶ ἐμφανιζομένη μεθʼ ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ὑπογράφοντος κατὰ παράκλησιν ἐμὴν καὶ ἀξίωσιν καὶ τῶν
r.35   ἑξῆς μαρτυρούντων καὶ ἐπερωτηθεῖσα κατὰ πρόσωπον ταῦθʼ οὕτως καλῶς ἔχειν
r.36   ποιεῖν ὡμολόγησα καὶ ἀπέλυσα. Αὐρηλία Τσώνη θυγάτηρ Μηνᾶ μητρὸς Ταπίας
r.37   μοναχὴ ἀπὸ Συήνης ἡ προκειμένη ἐθέμην ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα τὰ ἐγγεγραμμένα ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαύιος Ἰωάννις Ἀβρααμίου ἀκτουάριος ἀριθμοῦ
r.38   Συήνης ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γράμματα μὴ εἰδυίας.
r.39   Παθερμούθις Σερήνου ἐλάχιστος πρεσβύτερος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.40   Φλαύιος Ἀλλάμων Δίου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.41   Φλαύιος Παείων Δίου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.42   Ἴσακος Ταείονος ἀρχιδιάκονος τῆς ἁγίας Μαρίας Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.43   Παπνούθις Αἴονος διάκονος ἐκκλησίας Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.44   Φλαύιος Διόσκυρος Ἰωάνου κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.45   Φλαύιος Ἑρμίας Ἰωάννου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.46   διʼ ἐμοῦ Μάρκου Ἄπα Δίου ἐγράφη.
r.47   ὁμολογία ἀμεριμνίας γεναμένη παρὰ Τσώνης θυγατρὸς Μηνᾶ μοναχῆς ἀπὸ Συήνης πρὸς Ταπίαν
r.48   τὴν μητέρα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of our most divine master Flavius Tiberius Maurice, the eternal Augustus
2     Imperator and greatest benefactor, in the fourth year, and the consulship of the same our master,
3     in the second year, Thoth 23, of the fourth indiction, in Syene.
4     Aurelia Tsone, daughter of Menas, her mother being Tapia, a nun, originating from Syene,
5     who also provides the following subscriber, the one signing on her behalf, and witnesses,
6     the following, on her commission and at her request, attesting to this present
7     acknowledgment of quittance, to Aurelia Tapia, daughter of Tsios, her mother being Mariam,
8     transacting business without her lord-husband, my own mother, originating from the same
9     Syene, greeting. Since formerly my blessed father Menas took you
10    into the partnership of lawful marriage, and after my birth, while I was still young,
11    by a diabolical and satanic working you were separated from him; and my
12    aforesaid father Menas having given you four gold solidi, and after
13    I had advanced to the lawful age, I proceeded against you, bringing suit on account
14    of the same four solidi, saying that these had been given to you concerning
15    my necessary maintenance from childhood. Therefore, because I was reared by
16    my father but was cast out by you, and you joined yourself to another man,
17    I proceeded against you for these, seeking to receive (them); but you disputed, saying that
18    the same four solidi were for my release and dowry; and after many
19    things had been said and counter-said and examined, afterward it was decided that
20    I should receive the same four solidi, because, as aforesaid, I was reared
21    by my aforesaid father; and on condition that I neither receive nor take on your behalf,
22    nor sue you or your heirs, now and at no time, in no
23    way, on any pretext. Whence I have come to this written quittance,
24    by which I acknowledge that I no longer have any claim against you or against your heirs after you,
25    nor (will I) sue or accuse or set an arbitration against you concerning this matter,
26    and (will) neither give nor take on your behalf, nor (will) anyone else proceed in my name
27    against you or your heirs or children or grandchildren; and if it should happen that I proceed against you
28    at any time, or against your heirs, concerning any matter whatsoever, on condition that I provide
29    on account of a penalty for transgression one ounce of gold, exacted in deed and in force from
30    my personal property, and (that) nothing be valid against what is written in this
31    present acknowledgment of quittance, but in addition that, unwilling, I abide by it as having been made in a public archive, because no necessity lay upon me, nor any deceit or fraud,
32    but because I have so decided and have been paid in full the aforesaid four solidi,
33    and (because) I have set forth for you this written security, which shall be valid and secure and unbreakable
34    and unshakable and lawful, produced and presented everywhere, with the signature of the one signing on my behalf at my entreaty and request, and of
35    the following witnesses; and being formally questioned in person, that these things are thus rightly
36    done, I acknowledged and released. I, Aurelia Tsone, daughter of Menas, mother Tapia,
37    a nun from Syene, the aforesaid, have set forth this acknowledgment, and all that is written is agreeable to me as is set forth. I, Flavius John son of Abraamios, actuarius of the regiment
38    of Syene, having been asked, wrote on her behalf, since she does not know letters.
39    I, Pathermouthis son of Serenos, least presbyter of Syene, bear witness.
40    I, Flavius Allamon son of Dios, soldier of the regiment of Syene, bear witness.
41    I, Flavius Paeion son of Dios, soldier of the regiment of Syene, bear witness.
42    I, Isakos son of Taeion, archdeacon of Saint Mary of Syene, bear witness.
43    I, Papnouthis son of Aion, deacon of the church of Syene, bear witness.
44    I, Flavius Dioskyros son of John, centurion of the regiment of Syene, bear witness.
45    I, Flavius Hermias son of John, soldier of the regiment of Syene, bear witness.
46    Written by me, Markos son of Apa Dios.
47    Acknowledgment of quittance made by Tsone, daughter of Menas, a nun from Syene, to Tapia
48    the mother.
