[META]
id:       P.LOND 5.1727
label:    P.LOND 5.1727
name:     Contract — Syene
genre:    contracts
date:     584 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Syene (584 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — elterliche Teilung — Vermögen
tm:       19741
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;5;1727
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    [ βασ]ιλείας τοῦ θειοτ[άτου ἡμῶν δεσ]πότου Φλαυΐου [Τι]βερίου Μαυρικίου
r.2    τοῦ αἰωνίου Α[υγούστου καὶ] Αὐτοκράτορος ἔτους δευ[τέρου ] …
r.3    … [ ἐν Συήνῃ].
r.4    Αὐρήλιοι Πατερμούθις υἱος Μηνᾶ μητρὸς Τσίας ν[αύτης ἀπὸ Συήνης καὶ]
r.5    Τκακὼ ἡ τούτου σύμβιος θυ[γάτ]ηρ Ἰακώβο[υ] μητρὸς Ταπί[ας]
r.6    [ὁρμωμένη ἀπὸ Συήνης οἱ κα]ὶ ἑξῆς ὑπογραφέα παρέχοντες
r.7    [τὸν ὑπὲρ αὐ]τῶν ὑπογράφοντα καὶ μάρτυρας τοὺς ἑξῆς κατʼ ἐπιτρο[πὴν κα]ὶ [α]ἴτησιν καὶ ἀξίωσιν μαρτυροῦντας τῇδε τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ
r.8    χαίρειν. ἐπειδήπερ συνεζεύχθημεν ἀλλήλοις εἰς γάμου κοινωνίαν
r.9    οὐ τὴν τυχοῦσαν ἀνάπαυσιν καὶ θάλψιν ἐνδεικνύμενοι
r.10   ἀλλήλοις ἀναπαύοντες καὶ θάλποντες καὶ δουλεύοντες
r.11   καὶ ὑπακούοντες καὶ ὑποτάττοντες ἁπλῶς ἐν μηδένι
r.12   παρεπικρίνοντες ἀλλὰ ἐν ὑποταγῇ πάσῃ, τοίνυν εὐλαβούμενοι μήποτε παρὰ προσδοκίαν ἡμῶν τινα ἐξ ἡμῶν
r.13   τέλει τοῦ βίου χρησάμενον καὶ τῶν ἐνταῦθα τοῦ κόσμου
r.14   ἐπαναχωρῆσαι πραγμάτων καὶ εὑρεθείη τὸν ζῶντα ὑστερούμενον παρὰ τῶν ἄμφοιν ἡμῶν τέκνων, ὅθεν νοοῦντες,
r.15   φρονοῦντες λογισμούς, ἔχοντες ἐρρωμένας τὰς διανοίας,
r.16   τὰς φρένας ἀπαθεῖς, τὰς αἰσθήσεις ὑγιεῖς, ἐπὶ ποδῶν
r.17   βαδίζοντες ἐπʼ ἀγοραῖς παρερχόμεθα εἰς ταύτην τὴν
r.18   ἔγγραφον ὁμολογίαν διʼ ἧς ὁμολογοῦμεν ἡμεῖς οἱ προγεγραμμένοι ἑκόντες καὶ πεπει[σ]μένοι δίχα παντὸς
r.19   δόλου καὶ φόβου καὶ βίας καὶ ἀπάτης καὶ ἀνάγκης καὶ συναρπαγῆς
r.20   καὶ κολακείας καὶ μηχανῆς καὶ κακοηθείας καὶ ἐλαττώματος παντὸς δίς, τρὶς βουλευσάμενοι ὡς εἴη μὲν ἡμᾶς ζῶντας
r.21   καὶ ὑγιαίνοντας ἐναπολαύειν [καὶ] χρήσασθαι πάντων τῶν
r.22   πραγμάτων ἡμῶν καθʼ ἣν ἂν βουλόμεθα διοίκησιν·
r.23   ἐπὰν δὲ παρασταίη τῷ τῶν ὅλων δεσπότῃ Χρίστῳ, ὅπερ
r.24   ἀπείη, τινὰ ἐξ ἡμῶν τέλει τοῦ βίου χρήσασθαι ἐφʼ ᾧ τὸν ζῶντα
r.25   ἔχειν καὶ κατέχειν πάντων τῶν καταλειφθησομένων
r.26   πραγμάτων ὑπὸ τοῦ τετελευτηκότος τῶν περιελθόντων εἰς αὐτὸν
r.27   ἀπὸ γονέων διαδοχῆς καὶ ἀπὸ ἀγορασιαστικοῦ δικαίου καὶ ἀπὸ ἱδρώτων
r.28   καμάτων ἔν τε οἰκίαις καὶ χρυσοῖς καὶ ἀργυροῖς καὶ χαλκοῖς καὶ
r.29   ὀριχάλκοις καὶ ἐσθήμασι καὶ ὑφάσμασι καὶ παντ[οί]οις λεπτοῖς
r.30   εἴδεσι ἀπὸ μεγάλου εἴδους μέχρι ἐλαχίστου τινὸς καὶ τούτων
r.31   κατακυριεύειν καὶ δεσπόζειν καὶ διοικεῖν καὶ οἰκεῖν καὶ φιλοκαλεῖν
r.32   καὶ ἐκ αὐτῶν τρέφεσθαι καὶ ἱματίσαι καὶ κηδεύσαι καὶ ἐκτελέσαι
r.33   τὰς προσφορὰς τοῦ ἀποθανόντος, μηδένος τῶν τέκνων
r.34   ἡμῶν δυναμένου μήτε δυνησομένου ἐπελεύσασθαι τῷ ζῶντι
r.35   ἢ ἐγκαλεῖν ἢ λογοθετῆσαι ἢ κωλυομένου ἄχρι τελευτῆς αὐτοῦ καὶ
r.36   μετὰ τὴν τελευτὴν ἐφʼ ᾧ ἅπαντα τὰ ὑφʼ ἡμῶν καταλειφθησόμενα πράγματα σταλῆναι εἰς τὰ κοινὰ ἡμῶν τέκνα ἐξ ἰσομοιρίας
r.37   καὶ μὴ διαφορὰν τέκνῳ παρὰ τέκνον ποιήσασθαι καὶ εἰ ὀφθείη
r.38   χρεωστῶν ὁ τετελευτηκὼς ἢ καὶ χρεωστούμενος ἐφʼ ᾧ τὴν
r.39   πᾶσαν δοσολημψίαν ποιήσασθαι ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἄχρι τελευτῆς αὐτοῦ καὶ
r.40   μετὰ τὴν τελευτὴν πᾶν τὸ πάκτον ἐπαναδραμεῖν εἰς τὰ αὐτὰ
r.41   κοινὰ ἡμῶν τέκνα· εἰ δέ τις ἐθελήσειεν ἐκ τῶν τέκνων
r.42   ἡμῶν ἢ ἄλλος ἐπελεύσασθαι τῷ ζῶντι ἢ ἀθετῆσαι ἢ παραβῆναι
r.43   ἢ παρασαλεῦσαι ταύτην ἡμῶν τὴν ἀλληλομολογίαν
r.44   ἢ δίαιταν κινεῖν ἐφʼ ᾧ τὸν ἐπελευσόμενον πρῶτον μὲν ἀλλότριον καὶ ἄκληρον ἔσεσθαι τῆς παντοίας ὑποστάσεως τοῦ
r.45   ἐπιχειροῦντος παραβαίνειν, ἔπειτα ἐπιγινώσκειν λόγῳ προστίμου
r.46   χρυσοῦ νομίσματα δώδεκα ἔργῳ καὶ δυνάμει ἀπαιτούμενα ἐκ τῆς
r.47   ὑποστάσεως τοῦ παραβαίνοντος μετὰ καὶ τοῦ μὲν [μὴ] ἰσχύειν κατὰ
r.48   τῶν ἐγγεγραμμένων ἀλλὰ ἐρρῶσθαι αὐτὰ ἐπὶ τῷ παντί·
r.49   καὶ προσεπὶ τούτοις πᾶσι ἐπωμοσάμεθα τὸν θεῖον καὶ σεβάσμιον
r.50   ὅρκον τοῦ παντοκράτορος Θεοῦ καὶ τῆς νίκης καὶ διαμονῆς τῶν γαληνοτάτων
r.51   ἡμῶν δεσποτῶν μὴ παραβαίνειν τὰ προδεδηλουμένα διάστολα
r.52   καὶ πρὸς ἡμῶν ἀσφάλειαν ταύτην ἐξεδόμεθα τὴν ἀλληλομολογίαν
r.53   κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαίαν καὶ ἔννομον ἁπανταχοῦ προφερομένην μεθʼ
r.54   ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν ὑπογράφοντος καὶ τῶν ἑξῆς μαρτυρούντων καὶ
r.55   ἐπερωτηθέντες ὡμολογήσαμεν. Αὐρήλιος Πατερμούθις υἱὸς Μηνᾶ μητρὸς Τσίας
r.56   ναύτης ἀπὸ Συήνης καὶ ἡ τούτου σύμβιος Αὐρηλία Τκακὼ θυγάτηρ Ἰακώβου
r.57   μητρὸς Ταπίας ὁρμώμενοι ἐν Συήνῃ οἱ προκείμενοι ἐθέμεθα τὴν παροῦσαν ἀλληλομολογίαν
r.58   καὶ στοιχεῖ ἡμῖν πάντα τὰ ἐγγεγραμμένα ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαύιος Μᾶρκος Ἄπα Δίου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ
r.59   Συήνης ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν παρόντων καὶ εἰπόντων μοι γράμματα
r.60   μὴ εἰδότων.
r.61   Φλαύιος Κύρος Ἰωάνου κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.62   Φλαύιος Ἰωάννης Πατερμουθίου ἀπὸ βικαρίων ἀριθμοῦ Σηύνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.63   Θεόφιλος ἐλάχιστος διάκονος μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ αἰτηθεὶς παρὰ τῶν θεμένων.
r.64   Φλαύιος Ἁτρῆς Βίκτορ[ος] στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.65   Φλαύιος Ἰωάννης Κολλούθου κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.66   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἀλλάμονος Πέτρου ἀπὸ βικαρίων ἐγράφη.
r.67   ἀλληλομολογία … τι Πατερμουθίου [καὶ Τκακώ. ]

[TRANSLATION]
1     [In the rei]gn of our most divine [mas]ter Flavius [Ti]berius Mauricius,
2     the eternal A[ugustus and] Imperator, in the seco[nd] year …
3     … [in Syene].
4     The Aurelii Patermouthis son of Menas, mother Tsia, the s[ailor from Syene, and]
5     Tkako his wife, dau[ght]er of Iakob[os], mother Tapi[a],
6     [originating from Syene, w]ho also provide hereafter a subscriber,
7     [the one signing on the]ir [behalf] and the witnesses hereafter, by commi[ssion an]d [r]equest and demand testifying to this acknowledgment,
8     greeting. Since we have been yoked to one another in the partnership of marriage,
9     showing no ordinary repose and warmth
10    to one another, reposing and warming and serving
11    and obeying and submitting, simply in nothing
12    being at variance, but in all submission; therefore, taking precaution lest at some time, contrary to our expectation, one of us,
13    having reached the end of life and having departed from the affairs here of the world,
14    and the survivor be found deprived of the children of us both, wherefore, considering,
15    pondering reckonings, having our minds sound,
16    our wits unaffected, our senses healthy, on our feet
17    walking about in the marketplaces, we proceed to this
18    written acknowledgment, through which we, the aforewritten, acknowledge, willingly and per[su]aded, without any
19    deceit and fear and force and trickery and necessity and surprise
20    and flattery and contrivance and malice and any defect whatsoever, having twice and thrice deliberated, that while we are living
21    and in health we shall enjoy [and] use all our
22    things according to whatever management we wish;
23    but when it shall befall, by the will of Christ the master of all — which
24    God forbid — that one of us should reach the end of life, on condition that the survivor
25    shall have and hold all the things to be left
26    by the deceased, of those that have come to him
27    from succession of parents and from right of purchase and from sweats
28    of toils, both in houses and gold and silver and bronze and
29    brass and garments and woven goods and all [k]inds of small
30    kinds, from a great kind down to some smallest, and of these
31    to take possession and be master and manage and dwell and adorn
32    and from them be maintained and clothed and bury and perform
33    the offerings of the deceased, none of our children
34    being able nor going to be able to proceed against the survivor
35    or to make claim or to call to account or being hindered until his death; and
36    after the death, on condition that all the things to be left by us shall be conveyed to our common children by equal sharing,
37    and that no distinction of child against child be made; and if the
38    deceased should appear to be in debt or also owed (money), on condition that
39    all the giving-and-taking be made on his behalf until his death; and
40    after the death all the lease-payment (pakton) shall revert to those same
41    common children of ours. But if anyone of our children
42    or another should wish to proceed against the survivor, or to annul or transgress
43    or disturb this our mutual acknowledgment
44    or to set a suit in motion, on condition that the one proceeding shall first be a stranger and disinherited of every kind of property of the one
45    who attempts to transgress, and then shall incur, on account of penalty,
46    twelve solidi of gold, in deed and in power exacted from the
47    property of the transgressor, together with also the [not] prevailing against
48    the things written, but these being valid in every respect;
49    and in addition to all these things we have sworn the divine and venerable
50    oath of God Almighty and of the victory and continuance of our most serene
51    masters, not to transgress the aforesaid stipulations;
52    and for our security we have issued this mutual acknowledgment,
53    which is valid and secure and lawful, brought forward everywhere, with
54    the subscription of the one signing on our behalf and of those witnessing hereafter; and
55    being questioned, we acknowledged. I, Aurelius Patermouthis son of Menas, mother Tsia,
56    sailor from Syene, and his wife Aurelia Tkako daughter of Iakobos,
57    mother Tapia, originating in Syene, the aforesaid, have made the present mutual acknowledgment,
58    and all the things written are agreeable to us as set forth. I, Flavius Markos son of Apa Dios, soldier of the unit
59    of Syene, having been requested, wrote on behalf of them who were present and told me, they being illiterate.
60    illiterate.
61    I, Flavius Kyros son of Ioannes, centurion of the unit of Syene, witness.
62    I, Flavius Ioannes son of Patermouthios, of the vicarii of the unit of Syene, witness.
63    I, Theophilos the least deacon, witness to the acknowledgment, having been requested by those who made it.
64    I, Flavius Hatres son of Biktor, soldier of the unit of Syene, witness.
65    I, Flavius Ioannes son of Kollouthos, centurion of the unit of Syene, witness.
66    Through me, Allamon son of Petros, of the vicarii, it was written.
67    Mutual acknowledgment … of Patermouthios [and Tkako.]
