[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.1168
label:    P.LOND 3.1168
name:     Receipt — Hermopolis
genre:    receipts
date:     44 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Hermopolis
held:     London
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Hermopolis (44 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Verträge und Quittungen — Bank — der Teil eines Hauses — der als Sicherheit für ein Darlehen (Geld) fungierte und in dem der Darlehensgeber Wohnrecht hatte (Antichrese) — fällt dem Darlehensgeber zu als Ersatz für die Rückzahlung des Darlehens — vollständiger Vorgang
tm:       22825
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;1168
lat:      27.7813573345
lon:      30.8037580511

[GREEK]
r.1    [ἔτο]υς τετάρτου Τιβερίου Κλ[α]υδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος μηνὸς Δύστρου Τῦβι κζ σεβαστῇ ἐν Ἑρμουπόλει τῆς Θηβαίδος.
r.2    [ἐ]μίσθωσεν Στοτοῆτις Δ[ιοσ]κόρου Ἑρμοπολῖτις Περσίνη τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὡς ἐτῶν νγ μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος οὐλὴ μετώπῳ μέσῳ μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ αὐτῆς
r.3    [ἀδε]λφοῦ Πεκύσιος τοῦ Διοσκ[όρου] ὡς ἐτῶν ξ μέσου μελίχρωτος … εὐθύρινος οὐλὴ ὑπὸ μήλῳ αρειω … [ τ]ω αὐτῆς ἀδελφῷ [Χ]ιχόιτι Διοσκόρου ὡς ἐτῶν ξα μέσῳ μελίχρωτι μακροπροσώπῳ εὐθύρινι οὐλὴ παρὰ
r.4    … δεξι τὸ ὑπάρχον αὐτῆ[ι πα]τρικὸν ἕκτον μέρος οἰ[κία]ς καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ συνκυρό[ντ]ων καὶ χρηστηρίων καὶ ἀνηκόντων καὶ εἰσόδου καὶ ἐξόδου ὧν τὰ λοιπὰ
r.5    [μέ]ρη ἐστὶν τοῦ αὐτοῦ Χι[χόιτο]ς πάντων ὄντων ἐ[ντ]ὸς τοῦ ἐν Ἑρμουπόλει Φρουρ[ί]ου ἐν τοῖς ἀπὸ λιβὸς μέρεσι ἐπὶ ταῖς οὔσαις γειτνίαις. ἡ μίσθωσις ἥδε
r.6    [ἀ]πὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμ[έ]ρα[ς] ἐπʼ ἔτη τέσσαρα ἐφʼ ᾧ [ὁ] Χιχόις καὶ οἱ παρʼ αὐτοῦ οἰκήσουσι ἐν τοῖς μεμισθωμένοις ἐπὶ τὸν χρόνον ἀντὶ τοῦ τόκου
r.7    [ὧ]ν ἀνείρηται ἡ Στοτοῆτις παρὰ τοῦ Χιχόιτος ἀργυρίου Σεβαστ[ο]ῦ καὶ Πτολεμαικοῦ νομίσματος δραχμῶν διακοσίων εἴκοσι διὰ τῆς Σύρου
r.8    τραπέζης, βεβαιούτω δὲ ἡ [Στ]οτοῆτις τήνδε τὴν μίσθωσιν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπό τε δημοσίων καὶ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ ἀπὸ πάντων ἁπλῶς
r.9    ἢ καὶ μὴ ἐξέστω πωλεῖν μηδʼ ὑ[π]οτίθεσθαι τὰ μεμισθωμένα μηδὲ ἑτέροις μεταμισθοῦν μηδʼ ἄλλο μηδὲν ὑπεναντίον τούτοις
r.10   ἐπιτελεῖν τρόπῳ μηδενὶ ἢ τὰ παρὰ ταῦτα ἄκυρα εἶναι, πληρωθέντος δὲ τοῦ χρόνου ἀποδότω ἡ Στοτοῆτις τῷ Χιχόιτι ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ
r.11   τὰς τοῦ ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας εἴκοσι παραχρῆμα. ἐὰν δὲ μὴ ἀποδῷ καὶ βούληται ὁ Χιχόις πάλιν οἰκεῖν ἐπὶ τοῖς προκειμένοις
r.12   δικαίοις ἐξεῖναι αὐτῶι καὶ ἑτέροις μεταμισθοῦν ἀπαραποδίστως τῆς πράξεως οὔσης τῷ Χιχόιτι ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ ὁπηνίκα ἐὰν αἱρῶνται
r.13   μετὰ τὴν ὡρισμένην ἀπόδοσιν ἔκ τε τῆς Στοτοήτιος καὶ ἐκ τῶν μεμισθωμένων οἰκοπέδων καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἄλλων ὑπαρχόντων αὐτῇ
r.14   πάντων καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης. ἡ μίσθωσις κυρία. Στοτοῆτις Διοσκόρου μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἐμαυτῆς ἀδελφοῦ Πεκύσιος τοῦ Διοσκόρου μεμίσθωκα κα[θ]ὼς πρόκειται ἐπὶ τὸν προκείμενον χρόνον ἀντὶ τοῦ τόκου ὧν ἔλαβον ἀργυρίου δραχμῶν διακοσίων εἴκοσι ἃς καὶ ἀποδώσω μετὰ τὸν χρόνον καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι
r.15   τ[ο]ῖς προγεγραμμένοις. Ἑρμαῖος [ὁ] καὶ Βησᾶς Μενχήους ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα. Χιχόις Διοσκόρου εὐδοκῶ. κεχρημάτισται
r.16   διὰ Ἑρμαίου τοῦ καὶ Κορνηλίου τοῦ Χαιρήμονος ἀγορανόμου.
r.17   Χιχόι Διοσκυρίου Σύρῳ τραπεζίτῃ χαίρειν· περίλυσιν τὴν ὑποκειμένην διαγραφὴν καὶ τὴν πρός με
r.18   μίσθωσιν ἕκτου μέρους οἰκίας διὰ τὸ ἀπεσχηκέναι με τὰ ἐπὶ αὐτήν· ἔτους δ Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου
r.19   Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος Φαρμῦθι κε.
r.20   ἀντίγραφον διαγραφῆς διὰ τῆς Σύρου ἰδιωτικῆς τραπέζης. ἔτους δ Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου
r.21   Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος Τῦβι εἰκοστῆι. Χιχόις Διοσκουρίδου
r.22   Στοτοήτιος Διοσκόρου μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς ἀδελφοῦ Πεκύσιος τοῦ Διοσκόρου ἀκολούθως
r.23   τῆι ἀνενηνεγμένηι διὰ τοῦ ἐν Ἑρμουπόλει ἀγορανομίου μισθώσει ἕκτου μέρους
r.24   οἰκίας καὶ αὐλῆς ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας εἴκοσι γίνονται δραχμαὶ σκ.
r.25   Στουτοῆτις Διοσκόρου μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἐμαυτῆς ἀδελφοῦ Πεκύσιος τοῦ Διοσκόρου
r.26   ἐπηκολούθηκα τῇ προκειμένῃ διαγραφῇ καὶ ἔχω ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας ε[ἴκοσ]ι,
r.27   ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ σκ, ἀκολούθως τῇ ἀνενηνεγμένῃ διὰ τοῦ ἐν Ἑρμουπόλει ἀγορανομίου μισθώσ[ει]
r.28   ἕκτου μέρους οἰκίας καὶ αὐλῆς καθότι πρόκειται. ἔτους δ Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ
r.29   Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος Τῦβι κζ. Ἑρμαῖος [ὁ] καὶ Βησᾶς Μενχήους ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν
r.30   διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα.
r.31   Χιχόιτος Διοσκυρίου Στοτοήτει Διοσκυρίου
r.32   ἀδελφῇ χαίρειν· ὁμολογῶ
r.33   ἀπεσχηκέναι παρὰ σοῦ
r.34   διὰ χειρὸς ἃς ὤφειλεις ἐμοὶ κατὰ μίσθωσιν
r.35   διὰ τοῦ ἐν Ἑρμουπόλει ἀγορανομίου ἐπὶ τῷ ἕκ[τῳ]
r.36   μέρει σου οἰκίας καὶ κατὰ διαγραφὴν τῆς
r.37   αὐτῆ[ς] μισθώσεως διὰ τῆς Σύρου τραπέζης
r.38   ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας εἴκοσι
r.39   ἐν μηνὶ Τῦβι τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος δ ἔτους Τ[ιβ]ερίου
r.40   Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβάστου Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος
r.41   καὶ οὐδέν σοι ἐνκαλῶ περὶ τῆς αὐτῆς
r.42   μισθώσεως οὔτε περὶ οὐδενὸς ἁπλῶς
r.43   ὁπηνίκα ἐὰν εἴης περιλύσασά με ὡς καθήκει
r.44   ἄνευ πάσης ὑπερθέσεως καὶ ἐμοῦ μηδὲν
r.45   λαβόντος διὰ τὸ ἀπεσχηκέναι με ταύτας
r.46   ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας εἴκοσι .
r.47   ἔτους δ Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ
r.48   Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος Φαρμοῦθι κε.
r.49   ἀντίγραφον περιλύσεως διὰ τῆς Πτολεμαίου τραπέζης
r.50   Στοτοῆτις Διοσκόρου μετὰ κυρίου
r.51   τοῦ ἑαυτῆς ἀδελφοῦ Πεκύσιος τοῦ Διοσκόρου
r.52   Χιχόυτι Διοσκόρου ἃς
r.53   ὤφειλον αὐτῷ κατὰ διαγραφὴν μισθώσεως ἀγορανομίου
r.54   διὰ τῆς Σύρου τραπέζης ἐπὶ τοῦ Τῦβι κζ Σεβαστῇ
r.55   τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος δ ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου
r.56   Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ
r.57   Αὐτοκράτορος καὶ λαμβ λόγου ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς διακοσίας
r.58   εἴκοσι γίνονται δραχμαὶ σκ.
r.59   ἔτους δ Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος
r.60   Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος
r.61   Παῦνι ι.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the fourth year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, in the month Dystros (=) Tybi 27, on the Augustan day, in Hermopolis of the Thebaid.
2     Stotoetis daughter of Dioskoros, a Hermopolitan, a Persian of the epigone, about 53 years old, of middling stature, honey-colored, long-faced, with a scar in the middle of her forehead, with as her guardian her own
3     brother Pekysis son of Dioskoros, about 60 years old, of middling (stature), honey-colored, … straight-nosed, with a scar under his cheek …, leased to her own brother Chichois son of Dioskoros, about 61 years old, of middling (stature), honey-colored, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar by
4     … right (cheek?), the sixth share belonging to her by paternal right of a house and courtyard and appurtenances and fixtures and fittings and entrance and exit, of which the remaining
5     parts belong to the same Chichois, all being within the Fort in Hermopolis, in the western parts, by the existing neighbors. This lease (runs)
6     from the present day for four years, on condition that Chichois and his agents shall dwell in the leased premises for the period, in lieu of the interest
7     on the (sums) which Stotoetis has received from Chichois, of silver of Augustan and Ptolemaic coinage, two hundred twenty drachmas, through the bank of Syros.
8     And let Stotoetis guarantee this lease with every guarantee, against both public and private (claims) and against all simply,
9     nor shall it be permitted to sell or mortgage the leased premises nor to sublet them to others nor to do anything else contrary to these
10    in any manner, or else whatever is contrary to these is to be void; and when the period is fulfilled, let Stotoetis pay back to Chichois or his agents
11    the two hundred twenty drachmas of silver at once. But if she does not pay back, and Chichois wishes again to dwell on the aforesaid
12    terms, it shall be permitted to him also to sublet to others unhindered, the right of execution belonging to Chichois or his agents whenever they may choose,
13    after the appointed repayment, both upon Stotoetis and upon the leased premises and upon all her other property,
14    as in execution of a judgment. The lease is valid. Stotoetis daughter of Dioskoros, with my guardian my own brother Pekysis son of Dioskoros, have leased as aforesaid for the aforesaid period, in lieu of the interest on the two hundred twenty drachmas of silver which I received, which I shall also repay after the period; and I consent to all
15    the aforesaid. Hermaios also called Besas son of Menches, I wrote on their behalf because they do not know letters. Chichois son of Dioskoros, I consent. It has been transacted
16    through Hermaios also called Kornelios son of Chairemon, agoranomos.
17    To Chichois son of Dioskourios, Syros the banker, greeting: (effect) the cancellation of the underlying deed and the
18    lease to me of the sixth share of the house, because I have received the (sums) upon it; year 4 of Tiberius Claudius
19    Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, Pharmouthi 25.
20    Copy of the deed through the private bank of Syros. Year 4 of Tiberius Claudius
21    Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, Tybi twentieth. Chichois son of Dioskourides
22    (received from) Stotoetis daughter of Dioskoros, with her guardian her own brother Pekysis son of Dioskoros, in accordance
23    with the lease registered through the agoranomeion in Hermopolis, of the sixth share
24    of a house and courtyard, two hundred twenty drachmas of silver — total 220 drachmas.
25    Stotoetis daughter of Dioskoros, with my guardian my own brother Pekysis son of Dioskoros,
26    I have followed up the aforesaid deed and I hold two hundred t[wenty] drachmas of silver,
27    of silver 220 drachmas, in accordance with the lease registered through the agoranomeion in Hermopolis
28    of the sixth share of a house and courtyard, as is aforesaid. Year 4 of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus
29    Germanicus Imperator, Tybi 27. Hermaios also called Besas son of Menches, I wrote on their behalf
30    because they do not know letters.
31    Chichois son of Dioskourios, to Stotoetis daughter of Dioskourios
32    his sister, greeting: I acknowledge
33    that I have received from you
34    by hand the (sums) which you owed me according to the lease
35    through the agoranomeion in Hermopolis, on the sixth
36    share of your house, and according to the deed of the
37    same lease through the bank of Syros,
38    two hundred twenty drachmas of silver
39    in the month Tybi of the present 4th year of Tiberius
40    Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator,
41    and I make no claim against you concerning the same
42    lease nor concerning anything else simply,
43    whenever you should have released me as is fitting
44    without any delay and I having received nothing (further)
45    because I have received these
46    two hundred twenty drachmas of silver.
47    Year 4 of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus
48    Germanicus Imperator, Pharmouthi 25.
49    Copy of the settlement through the bank of Ptolemaios.
50    Stotoetis daughter of Dioskoros, with her guardian
51    her own brother Pekysis son of Dioskoros,
52    (paid) to Chichois son of Dioskoros the (sums) which
53    she owed him according to the deed of the agoranomeion lease
54    through the bank of Syros, on the 27th of Tybi, the Augustan day,
55    of the present 4th year of Tiberius Claudius
56    Caesar Augustus Germanicus
57    Imperator, and he receives on account, two hundred drachmas of silver,
58    twenty, total 220 drachmas.
59    Year 4 of Tiberius Claudius Caesar
60    Augustus Germanicus Imperator,
61    Pauni 10.
