[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.1164f
label:    P.LOND 3.1164f
name:     Contract — Antinoopolis
genre:    contracts
date:     212 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Antinoopolis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Antinoopolis (212 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus
tm:       22817
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;1164f
lat:      27.8105625
lon:      30.8810025

[GREEK]
r.1    ιγ Ἀμμ[ων]ίου καὶ Ὀλυμπιάδου καὶ Ἀμμωναρίου διὰ τῆς μητρὸς Δημητρίας καὶ Εὐδαιμονίδ[ος] ἀργυρίου δραχμῶν ψ
r.2    ἔτους εἰκοστοῦ Αὐτοκράτορ[ο]ς Καίσαρος Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου Ἀντωνίνου Παρθικοῦ Μεγίστου Βρεταννικοῦ Μεγίστου Εὐσεβοῦς
r.3    Σεβαστοῦ μηνὸς Πανήμου Φαρμοῦθι ιγ. διὰ τῆς Ἀνουβίωνος Ἀμμωνίου Ματιδίου τοῦ καὶ Καλλιτεκνείου ἐν Ἀντινοουπόλει χρηματιστικῆς τραπ[έ]ζης. Ἀμμώνιος Σεβάστιος ὁ καὶ Ἡράκλειο[ς κ]αὶ οἱ τούτου ὁμογνήσιοι ἀδελφο[ὶ] Ὀλυμπιάδης καὶ Ἀμμωνάριον οἱ δύο ἀφήλικες Ἀντινοεῖς, οἱ τρεῖς ἐκ πατρὸς Χαιρήμονος Ἀμμωνίου φυλῆς τῆς αὐτῆς καὶ δήμου
r.4    διὰ τῆς κοινῆς αὐτῶν μητρὸς Δημητρίας Τιθοητίωνος ἀπὸ Θνίβεως τοῦ Ἑρμοπολείτου μετὰ κυρίου οὗ ἑκοῦσα ἐπεσπάσατο πρὸς μόνην ταύτην τὴν οἰκονομίαν Διοσκόρου Βησαρίωνος τοῦ Διοσκόρου Παυλινίου τοῦ καὶ Φιλαδελφ[ί]ου καὶ ἡ τουτων ὁμοπατρία ἀδελφὴ Εὐδαιμονὶς Ἀντινοὶς ἐκ μητρὸς Δημητρίας μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἀνδρὸς Ἥρωνος Μαμερτίνου Ματιδίου
r.5    τοῦ καὶ Θεσμοφορίου οἱ πάντες Κορνηλίῳ Σαραπάμμωνος τοῦ Εὐδαίμονος Ἀθηναιεῖ τῷ καὶ Ἐριχθονίῳ πεπρακέναι
r.6    τὸν Κορνήλιον τῷ Ἀμμωνίῳ καὶ Ὀλυμπιάδῃ καὶ Ἀμμωναρίῳ καὶ Εὐδαιμονίδι τοῖς τέσσαρσι κοινῶς ἐξ ἴσου μέρους ἀπὸ τοῦ
r.7    νῦν εἰς τὸ παντελὲς τὸ ὑπάρχον αὐτῷ κτητὸν μέρος ἥμισυ οἰκίας διστέγου σὺν καταγαίῳ καὶ χρηστηρίων καὶ αὐλῆς
r.8    καὶ ἀνηκόντων πάντων οὔσης ἐν τῷ δ γράμματι πλινθίῳ ζ τῆς Ἀντινόου ἧς ὅλης οἰκίας καὶ αὐλῆς, γείτονες νότου ῥύμη
r.9    δημοσία διʼ ἧς εἴσοδος καὶ ἔξοδος, βορρᾶ Τιθοητίωνος καὶ ἄλλων, ἀπηλιώτου Κορνηλίου καὶ ἄλλων, λιβὸς Σαραπάμμωνος
r.10   ἢ οἳ ἐὰν ὦσιν γείτονες πάντοθεν καὶ ἀνῃρῆσθαι τὸν πωλοῦντα Κορνήλιον παρά τε τῆς Εὐδαιμονίδος καὶ τῆς προκειμένης μητρὸς τῶν περὶ τὸν Ἀμμώνιον Δημητρίας τὴν συνπεφωνημένην πρὸς ἀλλήλους τιμὴν ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς ἑπτακοσίας γίνονται ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ ψ, παρὰ μὲν τῆς Εὐδαιμονίδος τὰς αἱρούσας αὐτῇ δραχμὰς ἑκατὸν ἑβδομήκοντα
r.11   πέντε , παρὰ δὲ τῆς Δημητρίας δραχμὰς πεντακοσίας εἰκοσιπέντε αἱρούσας τοῖς τέκνοις αὐτῆς οὔσας ἀπὸ τιμῆς
r.12   ὧν ἀπέδοτο ἡ αὐτὴ Δημητρία γυναικείων αὐτῆς κοσμαρίων καὶ σκευῶν ἃς καὶ ἐντεῦθεν χαρίζεται τοῖς αὐτοῖς τέκνοις αὐτῆς χάριτι ἀναφαιρέτῳ καὶ οὐ μετελεύσεται αὐτοὺς κατʼ οὐδένα τρόπον ἐπὶ τῷ καὶ αὐτὴν Δημητρίαν
r.13   ἔχειν τὴν οἴκησιν καὶ χρῆσιν τοῦ κατὰ τὰ τέκνα αὐτῆς μέρους τῆς οἰκίας καὶ χρηστηρίων πάντων ἄνευ
r.14   ἐνοικίου καὶ παντὸς τελέσματος ἐπὶ τὸν τῆς ζωῆς αὐτῆς χρόνον διὰ τὸ ἐπὶ τούτοις αὐτοῖς γεγενῆσθαι τὸν ἀγορασμόν,
r.15   κρατεῖν οὖν καὶ κυριεύειν τοὺς ὠνουμένους τέσσαρας ὧν τὰ ὀνόματα πρόκειται καὶ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτῶν τ[ο]ῦ πεπραμένου
r.16   ἡμίσους μέρους τῆς οἰκίας καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ χρηστηρίων πάντων καὶ διοικεῖν καὶ ἐπιτελεῖν περὶ αὐτοῦ ὡς ἂν αἱρῶνται
r.17   ἀνεμποδίστως, τῆς βεβαιώσεως διὰ παντὸς πρὸς πᾶσαν βεβαίωσιν ἀπὸ τῆς κατὰ τὸν πωλοῦντα ἐνποιήσεως
r.18   ἐξακολουθούσης αὐτῷ Κορνηλίῳ καὶ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ πάντα τὸν ἐπελευσόμενον ὀνόματι αὐτοῦ ἢ τῶν παρʼ αὐτοῦ ἀποστήσειν αὐτὸν παραχρῆμα ἰδίαις αὐτοῦ δαπάναις χωρὶς τοῦ κυρίαν μένειν τήνδε τὴν πρᾶσιν καὶ οὐκ ἐξέσται οὐδενὶ τῶν ὠνουμένων πωλεῖν ξένῳ τὸ κατʼ αὐτὸν μέρος ἢ μόνοις τοῖς προκειμένοις αὐτοῦ κοινωνοῖς
r.19   πρὸς τὸ αἱροῦν τῆς προκειμένης τιμῆς ἐφʼ ὅσον ἐστὶν ἡ οἰκία τῶν αὐτῶν στεγῶν διὰ τὸ ἐπὶ τούτοις ἑστάσθαι καὶ ἠγορακέναι. Κορνήλιος Σαραπάμμωνος τοῦ Εὐδαίμονος Ἀθηναιεὺς ὁ καὶ Ἐριχθόνιος πέπρακα τοῖς τέσσαρας κοινῶς ἐξ ἴσου τὸ ὑπάρχον μοι μέρος ἥμισυ τῆς προκειμένης οἰκίας διστέγου καὶ αὐλῆς καὶ χρηστηρίων πάντων
r.20   καὶ ἀπέσχον τὴν τιμὴν δραχμὰς ἑπτακοσίας καὶ βεβαιώσω καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι ὡς πρόκιται. Ἅρπαλος Νεμεσίωνος Νερουιάνιος ὁ καὶ Προπατόριος ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ τὸ ὄνομα ὑπογράφοντος. Κορνήλιος ὑπέγραψα
r.21   ὡς πρόκιται. Εὐδαιμονὶς Χαιρήμονος ἐώνημαι καὶ ἐξωδίασα τὴν τιμὴν καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι ὡς πρόκειται. Ἥρων Μαμερτείνου τοῦ Ὡρίωνος
r.22   Ματίδιος ὁ καὶ Θεσμοφόρειος ἐπιγέγραμμαι τῆς γυναικός μου κύριος καὶ ἔγ[ρ]αψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μὴ εἰδυίας γράμματα. Σαραπᾶς ὁ καὶ Σερῆνος Ἀμμωνίου Αἰλιεὺς ὁ καὶ Διονυσιεὺς [ἀ]νέγνων τοῖς
r.23   προγεγραμμένοις πᾶσι τὴν προκειμένην ὠνὴν ὡς περιέχει. Ἡλιό[δ]ωρος Ἑρμίου Παυλίνιος ὁ καὶ Φιλαδέλφιος μαρτυρῶ. Ὠριγένης Ἡρακλείδου Σεβάστιος ὁ καὶ Ἀσκλήπειος μαρτυρῶ. Διόσκορος Διοσκόρου Ἀθηναιεὺς ὁ καὶ Ἐλευσίνιος μαρτυρῶ. Σαραπίων ὁ καὶ Ε[ὐ]δαίμ[ω]ν Ἀθηναιεὺ[ς]
r.24   ὁ καὶ Μαραθώνιος μαρτυρῶ. Δημητρία Τιθοητίωνος μετὰ κυρίου Διοσκόρου Βησαρίωνος ἐξωδίασα τὴν προκειμένην τιμὴν καὶ εὐδοκῶ καὶ πείθομαι πᾶσι τοῖς πρ[οκειμένοις][. Φιλαντίνοος] ὁ καὶ Ὡρίων
r.25   γεραίτερος Ἀπολιναρίου Σαβ[είνιος ὁ καὶ Ἁρμονιεὺς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς μὴ ][εἰ]δυίας γράμματα. ὑπ[ογραφεὺς] τοῦ κυρίου … αι Διόσκορος Βησαρίωνος εὐδο[κῶ ] …

[TRANSLATION]
1     13(th). Of Ammonios and Olympias and Ammonarion, through their mother Demetria, and of Eudaimonis: of silver, 700 drachmas.
2     In the twentieth year of Imperator Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Parthicus Maximus Britannicus Maximus Pius
3     Augustus, in the month Panemos (=) Pharmouthi 13, through the bank of contracts of Anoubion son of Ammonios, of the Matidian and also Kallitekneian (tribe), in Antinoopolis. Ammonios Sebastios also called Herakleios and his full brothers Olympias and Ammonarion, the two minors, Antinoites, the three by father Chairemon son of Ammonios of the same tribe and deme,
4     through their common mother Demetria daughter of Tithoetion, from Thnibis of the Hermopolite (nome), with a guardian whom she willingly drew in for this transaction alone, Dioskoros son of Besarion son of Dioskoros, of the Pauliniian and also Philadelphian (tribe); and their sister by the same father, Eudaimonis, an Antinoite, by mother Demetria, with a guardian her husband Heron son of Mamertinos, of the Matidian
5     and also Thesmophorian (tribe) — all of them (declare) that they have sold to Cornelius son of Sarapammon son of Eudaimon, of the Athenaian and also Erichthonian (tribe),
6     that Cornelius has sold to Ammonios and Olympias and Ammonarion and Eudaimonis, the four jointly in equal share, from
7     now for ever, the property belonging to him by ownership, the half share of a two-storey house with cellar and appurtenances and courtyard
8     and all that pertains, being in the 4th letter-(quarter), block 7, of Antinoë; of which whole house and courtyard the neighbours are: to the south, a public street
9     through which is the entrance and exit; to the north, (the property) of Tithoetion and others; to the east, of Cornelius and others; to the west, of Sarapammon
10    or whoever the neighbours may be on all sides; and that the seller Cornelius has received from Eudaimonis and from the aforesaid mother of the (children) of Ammonios, Demetria, the price mutually agreed of seven hundred drachmas of silver — there are 700 drachmas of silver — from Eudaimonis the share falling to her, one hundred seventy-
11    five drachmas, and from Demetria five hundred twenty-five drachmas falling to her children, being from the price
12    of (the things) which the same Demetria had sold of her own women's ornaments and goods, which from here she gives as a gift to these same her children with an irrevocable favour, and she will not proceed against them in any way, on condition that Demetria herself also
13    have the dwelling and use of the part of the house belonging to her children and of all the appurtenances, without
14    rent and any tax, for the time of her life, because the purchase has been made on these terms for them,
15    so that the four purchasers, whose names are stated above, and their assigns are to hold and own the sold
16    half share of the house and courtyard and all appurtenances, and to administer and dispose concerning it as they may choose
17    without hindrance, the guarantee being throughout for every confirmation; and from the claim against the seller
18    falling upon him, Cornelius, and his assigns, and (that) he will remove at once at his own expense every claimant in his name or in the name of his assigns, apart from this sale remaining valid; and it shall not be permitted to any of the purchasers to sell to a stranger his own part, but only to his aforesaid partners
19    according to the share of the aforesaid price, in so far as the house consists of the same storeys, because they have stood and bought on these terms. Cornelius son of Sarapammon son of Eudaimon, the Athenaian also called Erichthonios, I have sold to the four jointly in equal (share) the half part belonging to me of the aforesaid two-storey house and courtyard and all appurtenances
20    and I have received the price, seven hundred drachmas, and I will guarantee and consent to all as stated above. Harpalos son of Nemesion, the Nervianian also called Propatorios, I wrote on his behalf, he signing his name. I, Cornelius, have signed
21    as stated above. I, Eudaimonis daughter of Chairemon, have bought and paid out the price and consent to all as stated above. Heron son of Mamertinos son of Horion,
22    Matidios also called Thesmophorios, I have been registered as guardian of my wife and wrote on her behalf since she does not know letters. Sarapas also called Serenos son of Ammonios, the Aelian also called Dionysian, I read out to
23    all the aforewritten the aforesaid deed of sale as it contains. Heliodoros son of Hermias, the Paulinian also called Philadelphian, I bear witness. Origenes son of Herakleides, the Sebastian also called Asklepian, I bear witness. Dioskoros son of Dioskoros, the Athenaian also called Eleusinian, I bear witness. Sarapion also called Eudaimon, the Athenaian
24    also called Marathonian, I bear witness. Demetria daughter of Tithoetion, with guardian Dioskoros son of Besarion, I have paid out the aforesaid price and consent and am persuaded of all the aforesaid. [Philantinoos] also called Horion
25    the elder, son of Apolinarios, the Sab[inian also called Harmonian, I wrote on her behalf since she does not] know letters. Subscriber for the guardian … Dioskoros son of Besarion, I con[sent] …
