[META]
id:       P.LOND 5.1729
label:    P.LOND 5.1729
name:     Documentary papyrus — Syene
genre:    documents
date:     584 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Syene (584 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Erklärung — Erfüllung — Rechtsansprüche — Schenkung — Todesfall
tm:       19744
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;5;1729
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλείας τοῦ θειοτάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαυίου Τιβερίου Μαυρικίου
r.2    τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου καὶ Αὐτοκρ[άτ]ορος ἔτους δευτέρου Φαμενὼθ
r.3    ἕκτῃ καὶ δεκάτῃ τῆς δευτέρας ἰνδικτίονος.
r.4    Ἰωάννης υἱὸς Πατεχνουμίου ἐλάχιστος μονάζων ἀπὸ τῆς Συήνης
r.5    ὁρμώμενος ὁ καὶ ἑξῆς ὑπογραφέα παρέχων τὸν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ
r.6    ὑπογράφοντα καὶ μάρτυρας τοὺς ἑξῆς μαρτυροῦντας τῇδε τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ
r.7    Αὐρηλίῳ Πατερμουθίῳ υἱῷ Μηνᾶτος ναύτῃ ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς
r.8    Συήνης ὁρμωμένῳ χαίρειν. ἐπειδήπερ πρὸ ὀλίγων
r.9    ἡμερῶν ἐπράθην τῷ μακαριωτάτῳ Ἰακώβῳ τὰ
r.10   ὑπάρχοντά μοι μέρη οἰκημάτων ἐξ ἐγγράφου πράσεως καὶ τῆς
r.11   τούτων τιμῆς ἔσχηκα παρʼ ὑμῶν πρὸς τὴν δύναμιν τῆς
r.12   γεναμένης παρʼ ἐμοῦ πράσεως τὴν τούτων τιμὴν καὶ
r.13   ἀνήλωσα εἰς τὰς ἀναγκαίας μου χρείας καὶ συνέβη με ἐνπέσω
r.14   εἰς νόσον δεηθῆναι πόλλα ἀναλώματα καὶ οὐκ ἔχω τὸν
r.15   ἐπιμελούμενόν μοι μήδε τὸν διαθρέψοντά με εἰ μὴ σὲ τὸν
r.16   προγεγραμμένον Πατερμούθιν ἀναπαύοντά μοι καὶ θάλποντά μοι
r.17   καὶ δουλεύοντά μοι καὶ τὴν πᾶσάν μου ζωαρκῆ χρείαν ἁπλῶς
r.18   ἐν μηδένι λυποῦντά με μήτε ἐν λόγῳ μήτε ἐν ἔργοις οὐδὲν δή που
r.19   ἄλλα καὶ πολλὰ δαπανήματα οἴκοθέν σου ἀνήλωσας μοι ἐν τῷ
r.20   νῦν γεγονότι λιμῷ ὥστε οὐκ ἔχω στόματι οὔτε ἱκανῇ τῇ γλώσσῃ
r.21   μου ἀφηγήσασθαι τὸ καθʼ ἕκαστον τῶν πολλῶν παρὰ σου εὐποιημάτων
r.22   τοῦ δεσπότου ἱκανοῦ ὄντος τὰς ἴσας ἀμοιβὰς ἀποδοῦναί σοι, τοίνυν
r.23   ἤκουσα παρά τινος ὡς οἱ υἱοὶ Κωσταντίου μελετῆσαί τινα
r.24   κατὰ σοῦ ὡς μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν τελευτὴν ἐνάγειν σοι ὁμολογῶ ὁμνύων
r.25   τὸ περιβεβλημένον μοι σχῆμα ὅτι οὐδὲν μοι χρεωστεῖς οὔτε
r.26   δέδωμεν σοι τί ποτε ἢ πεπράσκειν σοί τινι συναλλάγματι ἀλλὰ
r.27   οἴκοθέν σοῦ θρέψασθαί με καὶ ἱματίσαι καὶ τὴν πᾶσαν μοι ζωαρκῆ
r.28   μου χρείαν καὶ οὐ παύομαι ὁμολογήσω τὰς χάριτας σου ἐνώπιον
r.29   τοῦ Θεοῦ καὶ τῶν ἀνθρώπων καὶ ἂν οὐκ ἔχω τὰς ἀμοιβὰς σου ἀνταμείψασθαί σοι ἀλλὰ ὁμολογήσω ὅτι τὸ περιελθὸν εἰς ἐμὲ μέρος
r.30   οἰκίας ἀπὸ δικαίας κληρονομίας Μαρίας τῆς μακαρίας τῆς μου
r.31   ἀδελφῆς οὐκ ἔλαβον οὔτε τί ποτε ἔσχον ὑπὲρ τιμῆς αὐτοῦ
r.32   ἀλλὰ τὴ[ν] αὐθεντία[ν] ἔσχαν. μελετῶ ζητῆσαι λαβεῖν παρʼ αὐτῶν τὸ αἱροῦν μοι μέρος οἰκίας καὶ
r.33   διδόναι λόγῳ προστίμου χρυσοῦ νομίσματα ἓξ ἔργῳ καὶ δυνάμει
r.34   ἀπαιτούμενα ἐκ τῆς αὐτῶν ὑποστάσεως μετὰ καὶ τοῦ μηδὲν
r.35   μὴ δύνασθαι κινῆσαί τί ποτε κατὰ σοῦ ἢ αὐτοὶ η ἄλλοι ξένοι τε καὶ
r.36   οἰκείοι ἐν δικαστηρίῳ ἢ ἐκτὸς δικαστηρίου ἢ δίαιταν κινεῖν
r.37   κατὰ σοῦ διὰ τὸ ὡς ἄνω πολλάκις εἴρηται καὶ ἐπωμοσάμην ὅτι μηδὲν δεδωκέναι σοι ἀλλὰ οἴκοθέν σοῦ θρέψαι κ[αὶ ][ἱ]ματίσαι καὶ τὴν πᾶσάν μου ζωαρκῆ χρείαν
r.38   καὶ τοῦτο φανεροποιήσω [καὶ] κελεύω μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν ἔξοδον ὅσα ἔχω ἐλάχιστα πράγματα
r.39   ἔχειν καὶ ἰδιοποιήσασθαι καὶ μηδένος [ἐ]ξ[έσ]ται λαβεῖν τί ποτε παρὰ σοῦ καὶ
r.40   πρὸς σὴν ἀσφάλειαν ταύτην ἐξεδόμην τὴν ὁμολογίαν κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ
r.41   βεβαίαν καὶ ἔννομον ἁπανταχοῦ προφερομένη[ν μ]εθʼ ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ [ὑπ]ὲρ ἐμοῦ ὑπογράφοντος καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς
r.42   ὡμολόγησα. Ἰωάννης υἱὸς Πατεχνουμίου ἐλάχιστος μονάζων ἀπὸ Συήνης
r.43   ὁ προγεγραμμένος ἐθέμην τὴν ὁμολογίαν [καὶ σ]τοιχεῖ μοι π[άν]τα [τ]ὰ ἐγγ[εγ]ραμμένα
r.44   ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαύιος Μᾶρκος Ἄπα Δίου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης αἰτηθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος παρόντος καὶ εἰπόντος μ[οι] ἐν δημοσίῳ τόπῳ.
r.45   Φλαύιος Κύρος Ἰωάνου κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.46   Θεόφιλος Παείονος ἐλάχιστος διάκονος αἰτηθεὶς μαρτυρῶ.
r.47   Φλαύιος Ἁτρῆς Βίκτορ[ος] στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.48   Φλαύιος Ἰωάννης Κολλούθου κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.49   Φλαύιος Ἰσὰκ Ἰακὼβ κεντυρίων ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.50   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἀλλάμονος Πέτρου ἐγράφη.
r.51   ὁμολογία γεναμένη παρὰ Ἰωάνν[ο]υ …

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of our most divine master Flavius Tiberius Mauricius
2     the eternal Augustus and Imperator, in the second year, Phamenoth
3     the sixteenth, of the second indiction.
4     Ioannes, son of Patechnoumios, the least monk, from Syene,
5     originating, who also provides hereafter the subscriber subscribing on his behalf
6     and the witnesses bearing witness hereafter to this acknowledgement,
7     to Aurelius Patermouthios, son of Menas, sailor, from the same
8     Syene, originating, greeting. Since a few
9     days ago I sold to the most blessed Iakobos the
10    parts of buildings belonging to me, by a written sale, and of
11    their price I received from you, in accordance with the force of the
12    sale made by me, the price of these, and
13    I spent it on my necessary needs, and it happened that I fell
14    into illness and needed many expenses, and I have no
15    one caring for me, nor anyone to support me except you the
16    aforewritten Patermouthis, who give me rest and cherish me
17    and serve me and (provide) my whole need of livelihood, simply
18    in nothing grieving me, neither in word nor in deeds; nor indeed any
19    other things; and many expenses from your own house you spent on me in the
20    present famine which has occurred, so that I have neither with mouth nor with sufficient tongue
21    the power to recount each one of the many benefactions from you,
22    you being a master capable of rendering equal recompense to you (i.e. that I cannot); therefore,
23    I heard from someone that the sons of Konstantios are plotting something
24    against you, so as to sue you after my death, I acknowledge, swearing
25    by the habit (monastic garb) wrapped around me, that you owe me nothing, nor
26    have I given you anything at any time, nor sold to you in any transaction, but
27    from your own house you have fed me and clothed me and (provided) my whole
28    need of livelihood, and I do not cease — I will acknowledge your favours before
29    God and before men; and although I have no recompense to repay you, yet I will acknowledge that the share of a house which came to me
30    by lawful inheritance from Maria the blessed, my
31    sister, I did not receive, nor did I ever obtain anything for its price,
32    but they held the ownership. I intend to seek to receive from them the share of the house falling to me, and
33    to give as a fine six gold nomismata, demanded as a matter of fact and with full power
34    from their substance, together with the (provision) that nothing
35    can be moved at any time against you, either by themselves or by others, both strangers and
36    relatives, in court or out of court, or to set arbitration in motion
37    against you, on account of what has often been said above; and I swore that I have given you nothing, but from your own house you fed and clothed me and (provided) my whole need of livelihood.
38    And this I will make manifest [and] I order that after my departure whatever least possessions I have
39    you shall have and make your own, and that it shall be lawful for no one to receive anything at any time from you; and
40    for your security I have issued this acknowledgement, being valid and
41    secure and lawful, produced everywhere, with the subscription of the one subscribing on my behalf, and on being formally questioned
42    I acknowledged. Ioannes, son of Patechnoumios, the least monk, from Syene,
43    the aforewritten, I have made the acknowledgement [and] all the things written are agreeable to me
44    as is stated above. Flavius Markos son of Apa Dios, soldier of the unit of Syene, having been requested, I wrote on his behalf, since he does not know letters, he being present and telling me, in a public place.
45    Flavius Kyros son of Ioannes, centurion of the unit of Syene, I bear witness.
46    Theophilos son of Paeion, the least deacon, having been requested, I bear witness.
47    Flavius Hatres son of Biktor, soldier of the unit of Syene, I bear witness.
48    Flavius Ioannes son of Kollouthos, centurion of the unit of Syene, I bear witness.
49    Flavius Isak son of Iakob, centurion of the unit of Syene, I bear witness.
50    Through me, Allamon son of Petros, it was written.
51    Acknowledgement made by Ioannes …
