[META]
id:       P.LOND 3.1204
label:    P.LOND 3.1204
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     113 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (113 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Haus
tm:       91
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;3;1204
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ε Χοιὰχ η. ἀπέδοτο
r.2    Ταελολοῦς καὶ Σιεπμοῦς
r.3    καὶ Τοτοῆς ἥμισυ οἰκίας
r.4    πήχεως 𐅵, ἐπρίατο Κοβαετῆσις
r.5    χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α.
r.6    βασιλευόντων βασιλίσσης καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων
r.7    ἔτους ε, ἐφʼ ἱερέως βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος Σωτῆρος Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν
r.8    Σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν Εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν
r.9    Ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεοῦ Εὐπάτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλοπάτορος Νέου καὶ θεοῦ
r.10   Εὐεργέτου καὶ θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων ἱεροῦ πώλου Ἴσιδος μεγάλης μητρὸς
r.11   θεῶν, ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης Εὐεργέτιδος, κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου, ἱερείας
r.12   Ἀρσινόης Φιλοπάτορος τῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι,
r.13   ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερισσῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων
r.14   καὶ οὐσῶν ἐν Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος μηνὸς Χοιὰχ η ἐν Παθύρει ἐφʼ Ἡλιοδώρου
r.15   ἀγορανόμου. ἀπέδοτο Ταελολοῦς Τοτοέους Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν λ ἐλάσσων μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν καὶ Σιεπμοῦς Τοτοέους Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν κη μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν
r.16   μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῶν συνγενοῦς Ὥρου τοῦ Νεχούτου συνεπικελεύοντος Τοτοῆτος τοῦ Πελαίου
r.17   καὶ συνπωλουμένου τοῦ ἑαυτῶν πατρὸς ἥμισυ οἰκίας ᾠκοδομημένης καὶ ἐστεγασμένης καὶ τεθυρωμένης τῆς οὔσης ἐν τῷ ἀπὸ νότου μέρει τοῦ ἐν Παθύρει ὀχυρώματος πῆχυν στερεοῦ 𐅵 οὗ μέτεστι
r.18   τὸ ἄλλο ἥμισυ Πανοβχούνει Τοτοέους ἀδιαιρέτου, γείτονες τῆς ὅλης οἰκίας νότου οἰκία Ἁρπαήσιος
r.19   καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, βορρᾶ οἰκία Σιεπμοῦτος, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική, λιβὸς τεῖχος τοῦ ὀχυρώματος,
r.20   ἢ οἷ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Κοβαετῆσις Φαγώνιος Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν μ μέση
r.21   μελίχρως στρογγυλοπρόσωπος εὐθύριν χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α. προπωληταὶ καὶ βεβαιωταὶ Ταελολοῦς καὶ
r.22   Σιεπμοῦς καὶ Τοτοῆς οἱ ἀποδόμενοι οὓς ἐδέξατο Κοβαετῆσις ἡ πριαμένη.
r.23   Ἀμμωνιος κεχρημάτικα.
r.24   ἔτους ε Χοιὰχ λ. τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Κροκοδίλων πόλει τράπεζαν ἐφʼ ἧς Πανίσκος δεκάτης ἐγκυκλίου κατὰ τὴν παρὰ Πανίσκου τοῦ τελώνου διαγραφήν, ὑφʼ ἣν
r.25   ὑπογράφει Πανίσκος ὁ ἀντιγραφεύς, Κβετῆσις Φαγώνιος μέρου οἰκίας ἐν Παθύρει ᾠκοδομημένης καὶ τεθυρωμένης
r.26   ἧς αἱ γειτνίαι δεδήλωνται διὰ τῆς συγγραφῆς ἣν ἠγόρασεν παρὰ Ταελολοῦτος καὶ Σιεφμοῦτος τῶν Τοτοέους καὶ Τοτοέους τοῦ πατρὸς
r.27   συνεπικελευομένου τῆι ὠνῆι χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α, τέλους οὗ ἀλλαγὴ χ ψκ.
r.28   Πανίσκος τραπεζίτης

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 5, Choiak 8. There sold,
2     Taelolous and Siepmous
3     and Totoes, the half of a house,
4     ½ cubit; Kobaetesis bought (it)
5     for 1 talent of copper.
6     In the reign of the queen and of King Ptolemy, the Mother-loving Saviour gods,
7     year 5, the priest of King Ptolemy the Mother-loving Saviour god being Alexandros, and of the Saviour
8     gods and the Brother gods and the Benefactor gods and the Father-loving gods and the
9     Manifest gods and the god Eupator and the Mother-loving god and the Father-loving New god and the
10    Benefactor god and the Mother-loving Saviour gods, the sacred colt of Isis great mother
11    of the gods, the prize-bearer of Berenike the Benefactress, the basket-bearer of Arsinoe Philadelphos, the priestess
12    of Arsinoe Philopator being those who are in Alexandria,
13    and in Ptolemais of the Thebaid, the priests and priestesses and basket-bearer being those who are
14    and exist in Ptolemais of the Thebaid; in the month Choiak 8, in Pathyris, before Heliodoros
15    the agoranomos. There sold Taelolous daughter of Totoes, Persian, about 30 years old, shortish, honey-skinned, long-faced, straight-nosed, and Siepmous daughter of Totoes, Persian, about 28 years old, middling, honey-skinned, long-faced, straight-nosed,
16    with their guardian, their kinsman Horos son of Nechoutes, with the joint authorization of Totoes son of Pelaios,
17    and their father joining in the sale, the half of a house built and roofed and fitted with doors, being in the southern part of the fortification in Pathyris, 1 solid cubit ½, of which there belongs
18    the other half to Panobchounis son of Totoes, undivided; neighbours of the whole house: on the south the house of Harpaesis
19    and of his brothers, on the north the house of Siepmous, on the east a royal street, on the west the wall of the fortification,
20    or whoever the neighbours may be on all sides. There bought Kobaetesis daughter of Phagonis, Persian, about 40 years old, middling,
21    honey-skinned, round-faced, straight-nosed, for 1 talent of copper. Fore-sellers and warrantors are Taelolous and
22    Siepmous and Totoes the sellers, whom Kobaetesis the buyer accepted.
23    I, Ammonios, have transacted (this).
24    Year 5, Choiak 30. There has been paid to the bank in Krokodilon polis, of which Paniskos (is in charge), of the tenth tax of the enkyklion, according to the receipt from Paniskos the tax-farmer, under which
25    Paniskos the antigrapheus subscribes: Kobaetesis daughter of Phagonis, for a part of a house in Pathyris, built and fitted with doors,
26    whose neighbours have been declared through the deed which she purchased from Taelolous and Siepmous the (daughters) of Totoes and from Totoes the father,
27    joining in authorizing the sale, for 1 talent of copper, of the tax of which the exchange (is) 720.
28    Paniskos the banker.
