[META]
id:       P.LOND 5.1722
label:    P.LOND 5.1722
name:     Contract — Syene
genre:    contracts
date:     530 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Syene (530 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Haus
tm:       19738
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;5;1722
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Φλαουίου Δεκ[ίου τοῦ μεγαλοπρεπεστάτου] Φαμεν[ὼ]θ α … [τ]ῆς [ὀγ]δ[ό]η[ς]
r.2    ἰνδικτίονος ἐν Συήνῃ.
r.3    Αὐρήλιοι Ἰακὼβ ἐκ πατρὸς Παεῖτος Ῥωβὴν μητρὸς …
r.4    τὸ ἐπιτήδευμα καὶ ἡ τούτου γαμετὴ Τσενδία ἐκ πατρὸς Σούρτ[ου μ]ητρὸς Τουωτε
r.5    ἀμφότεροι καταμένοντες ἐν Συήνῃ παρέχοντες ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν ὑπογραφέα καὶ
r.6    μάρτυρας τοὺς ἑξῆς ὑπογράφοντας Φλαουίῳ Ἰακώβῳ υἱῳ Ἰσακίου
r.7    μητρὸς Τλούδος τυμπανάριος τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης καὶ ἀπὸ Συήνης χαίρειν.
r.8    ὁμολογοῦμεν ἑκουσίῳ καὶ ἀμετανοήτῳ γνώμῃ καὶ ἀδόλῳ προαιρέσει
r.9    καὶ εἰλικρινεῖ συνειδήσει κατὰ τήνδε τὴν ἁπλῆν ἔγγραφον ἀσφάλειαν
r.10   πεπρακέναι σοι σήμερον καὶ καταγεγραφέναι ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν ἐπὶ τὸν ἀεὶ καὶ
r.11   ἑξῆς ἅπαντα χρόνον τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν ἡμῖν οἰκίαν ἐξ ὁλοκλήρου ἀπὸ
r.12   ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος διακειμένην ἐπὶ τῆς αὐτῆς Συήνης περὶ τὸ νοτίνον
r.13   μέρος τοῦ Φρουρίου καὶ περὶ λαύραν τῆς παρεμβολῆς καὶ τῆς οἰκίας Παπνουθίου
r.14   Μαύρου καὶ τοῦ καμηλῶνος τῆς βασταγῆς τῶν Φίλων ἐλθοῦσαν εἰς ἡμ[ᾶ]ς ἀπὸ
r.15   δικαίου ἀγορασίας παρὰ Ἀβρααμίου καὶ Ἀλάμμονος υἱῶν Παύλου Οὐρανίου
r.16   καὶ εἰς αὐτοὺς ἀπὸ κληρονομικοῦ δικαίου τοῦ ἀναπαυσαμένου πατρ[ὸ]ς αὐτῶν Παύλου
r.17   Οὐρανίου καὶ εἰς αὐτὸν ἀπὸ δικαίου κληρονομίας τῶν γονέων αὐτοῦ ἐν ᾗ τῇ ἁπάσῃ
r.18   οἰκίᾳ ἐν μὲν πρώτῃ στέγῃ κελλία δύο ἓν μὲν νότινον μέγα νεῦον εἰς βορρᾶ
r.19   εἰς τὸ[ν] προσπαρακείμενον πυλῶνα, ἄλλο δὲ ἀπηλιωτικὸν νεῦον εἰς λίβα εἰς τὸ[ν]
r.20   πυλῶνα καὶ τὸ ὑποπέσσιον ἤτοι τχρηρε, ἐν δὲ τῇ δευτέρᾳ στέγῃ συμπόσια δύο ,
r.21   ἓν μὲν νεῦον εἰς βορρᾶ, ἄλλο δὲ νεῦον εἰς λίβα εἰς τὸ[ν] πεσσὸν μετὰ καὶ τῶν
r.22   ἐπάνω αὐτῶν δύο συμποσίων ἀσκεπάστων ἐν τῇ τρίτῃ στέγῃ ἕως ἀέρος καὶ
r.23   ὁ πεσσὸς ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος· εἰσὶ δὲ γείτονες αὐτῆς νότου ῥύμη δημοσία
r.24   μεθʼ ἣν οἰκία Δίου Ταγαρίας, βορρᾶ οἰκία νῦν Δίου Ἰσακίου τοῦ καὶ Ποσίου,
r.25   ἀπηλιώτου οἰκία Πετεροοῦτος Μαρτυρίου καὶ Τηρουτήρουος γαμετῆς αὐτοῦ, λιβὸς
r.26   ῥύμη δημοσία εἰς ἣν νεύει ἡ αὐθεντικὴ αὐτῆς θύρα ἁπαξαπλῶς ἀκολούθως
r.27   τῇ γεγενημένῃ ἡμῖν περὶ τούτου πράσει ἥνπερ σοι ἐξεδόμεθα εἰς πλεώτεραν σοῦ ἀσφάλειαν ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντῃ πάντοθεν καθὼς
r.28   ὑπηγορεύσαμεν ἡμεῖς οἱ ἀποδόμενοι καὶ οὐδὲν ἡμῖν ὑπολέλειπται ἄπρατον
r.29   ἐν τῇ προδεδηλουμένῃ οἰκίᾳ τιμῆς τῆς πρὸς ἀλλήλους συμπεφωνημένης
r.30   καὶ συναρεσάσης χρυσοῦ δοκίμου νομισματίων παλαιοχαράκτων
r.31   εὐστάθμων δεκαοκτώ, γίνεται χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια ιη, — ἥνπερ τελείαν τιμὴν αὐτόθι
r.32   ἀπεσχήκαμεν παρὰ σοῦ τοῦ ὠνουμένου ἡμεῖς οἱ πεπρακότες ἐν τῇ ἐνεστώσῃ
r.33   ἡμέρᾳ διὰ χειρὸς εἰς χεῖρα ἡμῶν ἐπὶ τῆς αὐτῆς Συήνης ἀριθμῷ καὶ σταθμῷ
r.34   πλήρη πρὸς τὸ ἐντεῦθέν σε τὸν ὠνούμενον τῆς προδεδηλουμένης
r.35   οἰκίας ἐξ ὁλοκλήρου ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος κυριεύειν καὶ δεσπόζειν
r.36   καὶ διοικεῖν καὶ οἰκονομεῖν καὶ οἰκοδομεῖν καὶ πωλεῖν καὶ χαρίζεσθαι καὶ τέκνοις
r.37   καὶ ἐγγόνοις διατάσσειν καὶ ἐπιτελεῖν τὰ περὶ αὐτῆς τρόπῳ ᾧ ἐὰν αἱρῇ
r.38   ἀκωλύτως καὶ ἀνεμποδίστως καὶ μὴ ἐγκαλεῖν σοι μήτʼ ἐγκαλέσειν μήθʼ
r.39   ἕτερόν τινα τῶν ἐξ ἡμῶν ὀνόματος ἐν μηδένι καιρῷ κατὰ μηδένα τρόπον
r.40   ἀφορμῇ μηδεμιᾷ διὰ τὸ ὡς προείπομεν ἀπεσχηκέναι ἡμᾶς παρὰ σοῦ τελείαν
r.41   τὴν προγεγραμμένην τιμήν, τὸν δὲ ἐγκαλέσοντά σοι ἢ καὶ ἀντιποιησόμενον
r.42   περὶ τῆς προδεδηλουμένης οἰκίας ἐκ ὁλοκλήρου ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος
r.43   ἢ μέρους αὐτῆς ἡμεῖς οἱ πεπρακότες ἀποστήσομεν καὶ καθαροποιήσομεν
r.44   σοι ἰδίοις ἡμῶν ἀναλώμασι καὶ ἐξεδόμεθα σοι τήνδε τὴν πρᾶσιν
r.45   κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βέβαιαν ἐφʼ ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἡμῶν ὑπογράφοντος καὶ ἐπερωτηθέντες
r.46   ὡμολογήσαμεν καὶ ἀπελύσαμεν. Αὐρήλιοι Ἰακὼβ Παεῖτος Ῥωβὴν καὶ ἡ τούτου
r.47   γαμετὴ Τσενδία Σούρτου οἱ προκείμενοι πεπράκαμεν τὴν προκειμένην οἰκίαν ἐξ ὁλοκλήρου ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος καὶ ἀπεσχήκαμεν παρὰ σοῦ τὴν προγεγραμμένην τιμὴν ἐ[ν] νομισματίοις δεκαοκτὼ καὶ βεβαιοῦμεν τὴν πρᾶσιν ὡς πρόκειται.
r.48   Φλαύιος Φώτις Θαλασίου Αὐγουστάλιος λεγεῶνος Συήνης ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν
r.49   γράμματα μὴ εἰδότων. Αὐρήλιος Ἰακὼβ Ψεννησίου ἀπὸ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.50   Φλαύιος Δίδυμος Σιλβανοῦ ἀπὸ βικαρίων μαρτυρῶ.
r.51   Φλαύιος Παπνούθις Δίου στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.52   Φλαύιος Ἰωάννης Πααμ στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.53   Φλαύιος Μακάριος Ἰσακίου στρατιώτης στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνυς μαρτυρῶ.
r.54   Φλαύιος Ἀβραὰμ Στεργορίου ἀπὸ ἀκτουαρίων λεγεῶνος Φιλῶν μαρτυρῶ .
r.55   Φλαύιος Μακάριος Ποσίου στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.56   Φλαύιος Παείων Ψαχώτος στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.57   Φλαύιος Ἀβραάμιος Παμητ κεντυρίων λεγεῶνος Συήνης ἐσωμάτισα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     After the consulship of Flavius Dec[ius the most magnificent,] Phamen[o]th 1 … of the [eig]h[t]h
2     indiction, in Syene.
3     The Aurelii: Jacob, of the father Paeis (son of) Roben, of the mother …,
4     by trade (a …), and his wife Tsendia, of the father Sourt[os, of the m]other Touote,
5     both residing in Syene, providing on their behalf as subscriber and
6     witnesses those subscribing below, to Flavius Jacob son of Isakios,
7     of the mother Tloud, drummer of the regiment of Syene and from Syene, greeting.
8     We acknowledge, by voluntary and unrepenting intent and guileless purpose
9     and sincere conscience, according to this simple written security,
10    that we have sold to you today and conveyed from now for all ever and
11    successive time, the house belonging to us, in entirety, from
12    foundation to air, situated in the same Syene, around the southern
13    part of the Fortress and around the lane of the camp and the house of Papnouthis
14    (son) of Mauros and the camel-stable of the carriage-service of the Philae, having come to u[s] by
15    right of purchase from Abraamios and Alammon, sons of Paulos (son) of Ouranios,
16    and to them by hereditary right from their reposed fath[e]r Paulos
17    (son) of Ouranios, and to him by right of inheritance from his parents — in which whole
18    house, on the first floor (there are) two cells, one of them a large southern one inclining to the north
19    toward the adjoining gateway, and the other an eastern one inclining to the west toward the
20    gateway, and the under-stair, that is the tchrere; and on the second floor two dining-rooms,
21    one inclining to the north, the other inclining to the west toward the pier, together also with the
22    two dining-rooms above them, uncovered, on the third floor up to the air; and
23    the pier from foundation to air. Its neighbors are: on the south, a public street,
24    beyond which is the house of Dios (son of) Tagaria; on the north, the house now of Dios (son) of Isakios also called Posios;
25    on the east, the house of Peterous (son) of Martyrios and of Terouterous his wife; on the west,
26    a public street, toward which its principal door inclines — quite simply, in accordance
27    with the sale of this made to us, which we have issued to you for your fuller security; or whoever the neighbors may be, on every side from all sides, according as
28    we, the sellers, have dictated; and nothing has been left to us unsold
29    in the aforesaid house. The price agreed upon between one another
30    and mutually approved (being), of approved gold, of old-stamped
31    full-weight solidi, eighteen, total of gold 18 solidi — which full price on the spot
32    we, the sellers, have received from you the buyer on the present
33    day, from hand to hand of ours, in the same Syene, by number and weight,
34    in full, so that from now on you, the buyer, of the aforesaid
35    house in entirety, from foundation to air, are to be owner and master
36    and to administer and manage and build and sell and bestow and to your children
37    and descendants bequeath and execute the matters concerning it in whatever manner you choose,
38    without hindrance and without impediment; and (that we will) not make a claim against you, nor will make a claim, nor
39    will any other in our name, at any time, in any manner,
40    on any pretext, because, as we said before, we have received from you the full
41    aforewritten price; and whoever shall make a claim against you, or also lay counter-claim
42    concerning the aforesaid house in entirety, from foundation to air,
43    or a part of it, we, the sellers, will remove (him) and clear (the title)
44    for you at our own expenses; and we have issued to you this sale,
45    being valid and secure, upon the subscription of the one subscribing on our behalf; and on being questioned
46    we acknowledged and released (it). The Aurelii: Jacob (son of) Paeis (son of) Roben, and his
47    wife Tsendia (daughter) of Sourtos, the aforesaid, have sold the aforesaid house in entirety, from foundation to air, and we have received from you the aforewritten price i[n] eighteen solidi, and we guarantee the sale as set out above.
48    Flavius Photis (son) of Thalasios, Augustalis of the legion of Syene, having been asked, wrote on their behalf,
49    they not knowing letters. Aurelius Jacob (son) of Psennesios, from Syene, I bear witness.
50    Flavius Didymos (son) of Silvanus, of the vicarii, I bear witness.
51    Flavius Papnouthis (son) of Dios, soldier of the legion of Syene, I bear witness.
52    Flavius Joannes (son of) Paam, soldier of the legion of Syene, I bear witness.
53    Flavius Makarios (son) of Isakios, soldier, soldier of the legion of Syene, I bear witness.
54    Flavius Abraam (son) of Stergorios, of the actuarii of the legion of Philae, I bear witness.
55    Flavius Makarios (son) of Posios, soldier of the legion of Syene, I bear witness.
56    Flavius Paeion (son) of Psachos, soldier of the legion of Syene, I bear witness.
57    Flavius Abraamios (son of) Pamet, centurion of the legion of Syene, I have registered (it).
