[META]
id:       P.LOND 5.1730
label:    P.LOND 5.1730
name:     Documentary papyrus — Syene
genre:    documents
date:     585 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Syene (585 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Erklärung — Verzicht — Erbschaft — Teil — Haus
tm:       19745
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.lond;5;1730
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλείας τοῦ θειοτάτου καὶ εὐσεβεστάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαυΐου Μαυρικίου Τιβερίου τοῦ
r.2    αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου Αὐτοκράτορος καὶ μεγίστου εὐεργέτου ἔτους τετάρτου Μεσορὴ κθ
r.3    τῆς τετάρτης ἰνδικτίονος ἐν Συήνῃ
r.4    Φλαύϊος Ἰωάννης ἐκ πατρὸς Ἰακώβου στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης ὁρμώμενος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς
r.5    ναύτης τὸ ἐπιτήδευμα ὁ καὶ ἑξῆς ὑπογραφέα παρέχων τὸν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ὑπογράφοντα καὶ
r.6    μάρτυρας τοὺς ἑξῆς προσμαρτυροῦντας τῇδε τῇ βεβαίᾳ ὁμολογίᾳ Φλαυΐῳ Πατερμουθίῳ υἱῷ Μηνᾶ
r.7    στρατιώτῃ ἀριθμοῦ Ἐλεφαντίνης ὁρμωμένῳ δὲ ἐν Συήνῃ καὶ τῇ τούτου συμβίῳ Αὐρηλίᾳ Τκακὼ ἰδίᾳ μου ὁμογνησίᾳ
r.8    ἀδελφῇ χαίρειν. ἐπειδὴ πρὸ ὀλίγων ἡμερῶν τέλει τοῦ βίου ἐχρήσατο ὁ ἐμὸς πατὴρ Ἰακὼβ
r.9    καὶ τὸ μέρος οἰκίας τῆς μητρὸς αὐτοῦ Τλοῦ ἀνέδραμεν εἰς ἡμᾶς ὥστε τραφῆναι αὐτὴν
r.10   ἄχρι τῆς αὐτῆς τελευτῆς ἅμα τῶν ἐξ αὐτῆς γεννηθέντων υἱῶν ὑπὲρ ὀνόματος τοῦ
r.11   ἀναπαυσαμένου ἡμῶν πατρὸς Ἰακώβου, ἐν δὲ τῷ παρόντι καιρῷ ὑπομνησθεὶς παρʼ αὐτῆς
r.12   ὑπὲρ τοῦ μέρους μου ἀναλώματος τε καὶ δαπανήματος καὶ τροφῆς οὐκ ἐδυνήθην τοῦτο
r.13   ἀπολογεῖσθαι διὰ τὴν συνεχομένην μοι ἀσθένειαν παρακλήσεις πολλὰς προσενήνοχα ὑμῖν
r.14   δέξασθαι παρʼ ἐμοῦ τὸ λαχόν μοι μέρος οἰκίας αὐτῆς καὶ χρείας αὐτῆς, χορηγηθησομένης,
r.15   παρʼ ὑμῶν πάσης τῆς καθημερινῆς τροφῆς. ἐζητήσατε οὖν λαβεῖν ἀσφάλειαν ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ
r.16   περὶ τούτου. κατὰ τοῦτο ἥκω εἰς ταύτην τὴν ἔγγραφον ὁμολογίαν διʼ ἧς ὁμολογῶ ἀποτετάχθαι
r.17   ὑμῖν τὸ μέρος αὐτῆς οἰκίας καὶ οἰκοσκεύῃ συλήσει ἀντὶ τοῦ προειρημένου ἀναλώματος
r.18   καὶ δαπανήματος αὐτῆς καὶ μηκέτι μηδένα λόγον ἔχω πρὸς ὑμᾶς περὶ τούτου διὰ τὸ ἐμὲ οὕτω
r.19   δεδόχθαι καὶ κατὰ παράκλησιν ἐμὴν συνετάξατε τοῦτο ποιῆσαι καὶ μὴ ἐγκαλεῖν ὑμῖν μήτε
r.20   ἐγκαλέσειν μήδʼ ἕτερόν τινα τῶν ἐξ ἐμοῦ ὀνόματος ἐν τῷ νῦν καὶ ἐν μηδένι καιρῷ κατὰ μηδένα
r.21   τρόπον ἀφορμὴν ἢ μέθοδον ἢ εὐρησιλογίαν· εἰ δὲ βουληθείην ἐγκαλεῖν ὑμῖν ἕνεκεν τούτου
r.22   ἐφʼ ᾧ ἐμὲ διδόναι λόγῳ καταδίκης χρυσοῦ οὐγκίαν μίαν ἔργῳ καὶ δυνάμει ἀπαιτουμένην ἐκ τῆς ἐμῆς
r.23   ὑποστάσεως καὶ εἰς ὑμῶν ἀσφάλειαν ἐθέμην τὴν παροῦσαν ὁμολογίαν τῆς παραχωρήσεως
r.24   κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαίαν καὶ ἔννομον ἁπανταχοῦ προφερομένην μεθʼ ὑπογραφῆς
r.25   τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ὑπογράφοντος καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς κατὰ πρόσωπον ὡμολόγησα καὶ ἀπέλυσα.
r.26   Ἰωάννης Ἰακώβου ὁ προκείμενος ἐθέμην ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν ἤτοι ἀποταγὴν καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα ὡς πρόκειται.
r.27   Φλαύιος Μηνᾶς Ἀβρααμίου στρατιώτης Συήνης ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος.
r.28   Φλαύιος Ἄπα Δῖος Ἰωάννου Συήνης μαρτυρῶ. Φλαύιος Κόλουθος Βίκτορ[ος] στρατιώτης Συήνης μαρτυρῶ. Φλαύιος Μουσαῖος Βίκτορος στρατιώτης ἀριθμοῦ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.29   διʼ ἐμοῦ Μάρκου Ἄπα Δίου ἐγράφη.
r.30   ὁμολογία γεναμένη Ἰωάννου Ἰακώβου ναύτου ἀπὸ Συήνης πρὸς Πατερμούθιον καὶ Τκακὼ σύμβ[ιον].

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of our most divine and most pious lord Flavius Maurice Tiberius the
2     eternal Augustus Emperor and greatest benefactor, in the fourth year, Mesore 29,
3     of the fourth indiction, in Syene.
4     Flavius Ioannes, son of Iakob, soldier of the unit of Syene, hailing from the same (place),
5     a sailor by occupation, who provides below the subscriber signing on his behalf and
6     the witnesses below witnessing to this secure agreement, to Flavius Patermouthios son of Menas,
7     soldier of the unit of Elephantine, but hailing in Syene, and to his wife Aurelia Tkako, my own true-born
8     sister, greeting. Since a few days ago my father Iakob came to the end of his life,
9     and the share of the house of his mother Tlou devolved upon us, so that she was maintained
10    until her own death, together with the sons born of her, in the name of
11    our father Iakob who has gone to his rest; and at the present time, having been reminded by her
12    concerning my share of the expense and outlay and maintenance, I was not able to
13    render account of this because of the illness that holds me, I have brought many entreaties to you
14    to receive from me the share that fell to me of her house and of her use(?), since all
15    the daily maintenance is supplied by you. You then asked to receive security on my behalf
16    concerning this. According to this I have come to this written agreement through which I acknowledge that I have ceded
17    to you her share of the house and household goods by spoliation(?) in return for the aforesaid expense
18    and her outlay, and that I no longer have any claim against you concerning this, because I have so
19    determined and at my own entreaty you agreed to do this, and (I agree) not to make claim against you nor
20    to bring claim, nor any other person in my name, now or at any time, in any
21    manner, by pretext or device or sophistry; and if I should wish to make claim against you on account of this,
22    on condition that I give by way of penalty one ounce of gold, exacted in deed and effect from my
23    property; and for your security I have made the present agreement of cession,
24    being valid and secure and lawful, produced everywhere, with the subscription
25    of him who signs on my behalf, and having been questioned face to face I acknowledged and released (it).
26    I, Ioannes son of Iakob the aforesaid, have made this agreement, that is renunciation, and everything is agreeable to me as set forth above.
27    I, Flavius Menas son of Abraamios, soldier of Syene, having been requested, wrote on his behalf, since he does not know letters.
28    I, Flavius Apa Dios son of Ioannes, of Syene, bear witness. I, Flavius Kolouthos son of Biktor, soldier of Syene, bear witness. I, Flavius Mousaios son of Biktor, soldier of the unit of Syene, bear witness.
29    Written through me, Markos son of Apa Dios.
30    Agreement made by Ioannes son of Iakob, sailor, from Syene, to Patermouthios and Tkako his wife.
