[META]
id:       P.MERT 2.92
label:    P.MERT 2.92
name:     Petition — Karanis (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     324 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Karanis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Karanis (Arsinoites) (324 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Isidoros an den praepositus pagi Dioskoros — Schaden (Kleinvieh)
tm:       11940
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mert;2;92
lat:      29.5182407695
lon:      30.9034261769

[GREEK]
r.1    Διοσκόρῳ πραιποσίτῳ ε πάγου
r.2    παρὰ Ἰσιδώρου Πτολεμαίου ἀπὸ κώμης Καρανίδος. κέκτημαι ἀρούρας ὑπὲρ τὰς ὀγ δοήκοντα, ὑπὲρ ὧν μὴ σπειρομένων τὰ τῷ ταμείῳ
r.3    πολλῷ χρόνῳ τελῶ καὶ τούτων ἕνεκα εἰς πενίαν περιέστην. μάλα γὰρ μόλις μετὰ τοσούτων καμάτων καὶ ἀναλωμάτων ἀπὸ τούτων ἐν σί[τ]ῳ μόνας ἀρούρας ὀκτὼ κατέσπειρα καὶ χορτοσπέρμου
r.4    ἀρούρας δύο. ἐπεὶ οὖν ἅμα τῇ φυῇ τούτων Ἀμμωνᾶς Καπέει καὶ
r.5    Σαμβάθιον Συρίωνος καὶ Σωτᾶς Ἀχιλλᾶ καὶ Πτολλᾶς Ἀρίστωνος τὰς
r.6    ἑαυτῶν βοῦς ἐπαφῆκαν ταῖς ἐν σίτῳ καὶ ταύτας καταβεβρώκασιν,
r.7    καὶ τότε βιβλία σοι περὶ τούτου ἐπιδέδωκα. ἀλλʼ ὕστερον αὐξήσαντα
r.8    καὶ καρπὸν δεδωκότα καὶ εἰς ἀκμὴν ἔλθοντα, πρὶν θερισθῆναι, πάλιν οἱ αὐτοὶ ἐπιβουλεύοντές μοι καὶ μεγάλα δυνάμενοι ἐπὶ
r.9    τῶν τόπων, βουλόμενοί με τὴν ἰδίαν ἐγκαταλεῖψαι, τὰς αὐτὰς βοῦς
r.10   εἰς τὸν σπόρον παραστήσαντες, τέλειον καταβρωθῆναι ἐπέτρεψαν ὡς μηδὲν τὸ σύνολον ἐκεῖσε εὑρίσκεσθαι οὐδὲν δὲ ἧττον
r.11   καὶ Ἅρπαλος ποιμὴν εἰς τὸν χορτόσπερμον καὶ τὸν χόρτον τὸν
r.12   κοπέντα καὶ ἀποκείμενον ἐν τῷ πεδίῳ ἐπαφῆκεν τὰ ἑαυτοῦ θρέμματα καὶ ταῦτα καταβεβρώκασιν. καὶ διὰ τοῦτο ἀποσιωπᾶν μὴ δυνάμενος
r.13   τῶν μειζόνων πολλάκις προσταξάντων τὰ καταλαμβανόμενα
r.14   ζῷα ἀδικοῦντα ἀλλοτρίου[ς] καρποὺς ταῦτα καταπωλεῖσθαι καὶ
r.15   τῷ μὲν ταμείῳ μέρος χωρεῖν καὶ τῷ τὴν βλάβην πεπονθότι
r.16   τὸ ἄλλο μέρος, μετὰ τοῦ καὶ κίνδυνον ἐκδέξασθαι τοὺς τούτων νομέας ἤτοι δεσπότας, τὰ βιβλία ἐπιδίδωμι ἀξιῶν ἀχθῆναι αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ σοῦ καὶ τῇ ἀκολουθίᾳ χρήσασθαι. διευτύχει.
r.17   τοῖς ἐσομένοις ὑπάτοις τὸ δ, Παῦνι ϛ,
r.18   Ἰσίδωρος ἐπιδέδωκα. Ἥρων ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἀγρ[α]μμάτου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Dioscorus, praepositus of the 5th pagus,
2     from Isidorus son of Ptolemaeus, from the village of Karanis. I possess more than eighty arouras, for which, though they are not sown, I have long paid the dues to the treasury
3     and on this account I have fallen into poverty. For with great difficulty, after so many labors and expenses, I sowed of these only eight arouras in grain and two arouras of fodder-seed
4     . Since then, just as these came up, Ammonas son of Kapeeis and
5     Sambathion son of Syrion and Sotas son of Achillas and Ptollas son of Ariston let
6     their own cattle loose upon the grain-fields and they devoured these,
7     and at that time I submitted petitions to you about this. But later, when they had grown
8     and borne fruit and come to ripeness, before they could be reaped, again the same men, plotting against me and being very powerful in
9     the locality, wishing me to abandon my own land, brought up the same cattle
10    into the crop and allowed it to be utterly devoured, so that nothing at all was found there; and no less
11    also Harpalus the shepherd, into the fodder-crop and the hay that had been
12    cut and laid up in the field, let loose his own beasts and they devoured these. And on this account, being unable to keep silent,
13    since the higher authorities have often ordered that the animals caught
14    damaging others' crops be sold off, and
15    that a part go to the treasury and to the one who has suffered the loss
16    the other part, together with the herdsmen or owners of these incurring danger as well, I submit this petition, requesting that they be brought before you and that the due process be applied. Farewell.
17    In the year of those who shall be consuls for the 4th time, Pauni 6.
18    I, Isidorus, have submitted it. I, Heron, wrote on his behalf, since he is illiterate.
