[META]
id:       P.MERT 1.10
label:    P.MERT 1.10
name:     Contract — Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     21 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Philadelphia (Arsinoites) (21 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Pacht — Land
tm:       11901
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mert;1;10
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ἑβδόμου Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ μηνὸς Ὑπερβερεταίου
r.2    τετράδι Μεσορὴι τετράδι ἐν Φιλαδελφείᾳ τῆς Ἡρακλείδου μερίδος τοῦ
r.3    Ἀρσινοίτου νομοῦ. ἐμίσθωσεν Πασίων Πετάλου ὡς ἐτῶν τεσσαράκοντα
r.4    ἐννέα οὐλὴ ἀντίχειρι ἀριστερῶι Ἁρμιύσει Ὥρου Πέρσηι τῆς ἐπιγονῆς
r.5    ὡς ἐτῶν τεσσαράκοντα οὐλὴ δακτύλωι πρώτωι χειρὸς ἀριστερᾶς
r.6    τὸν ὑπάρχοντα αὐτῶι περὶ τὴν προγεγραμμένην κώμην κλῆρον
r.7    ἀρουρῶν τριῶν ἢ ὅσων ἐὰν ἦι ἐπικαλούμενον ἡμιαρουρίου εἰς ἔτη
r.8    τρία ἀπὸ τοῦ εἰσιόντος ὀγδόου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ ἐκφ[ορί]ου
r.9    ἐπὶ μὲν τὰ πρῶτα ἔτη δύο κατʼ ἔτος σὺν αἷς λήμψεται ὁ μεμισθωμένος
r.10   σπερμάτων κριθῆς ἀρτάβαις τρισὶ κριθῆς ἀρταβῶν τριάκοντα
r.11   τὸ δὲ τρίτον ὅ ἐστιν ἔσχατον ἔτος τῆς μισθώσεως εἰς σπορὰν χόρτου εἰς κατάβρωμα καὶ κοιτασμὸν προβάτων ἀσπερμὶ πυροῦ
r.12   ἀρταβῶν ἐννέα πάντα δὲ μέτρωι τετάρτωι ἐμπόρων ἀνυπολόγων παντὸς ὑπολόγου. μὴ ἐξέστω οὖν τῶι μεμισθωμένῳ
r.13   πρὸ τοῦ χρόνου ἐγλιπεῖν τὴν μίσθωσιν, ἀλλὰ καὶ τὰ κατʼ ἔτος
r.14   ἔργα πάντα τοῦ κλήρου καὶ τοὺς χωματ[ι]σμοὺς καὶ ποτισμοὺς
r.15   καὶ τὴν ἄλλην γεωργικὴν ἐπιμέλειαν πᾶσαν ἐπιτελείτω
r.16   ἐκ τοῦ ἰδίου καὶ τὰ κατʼ ἔτος ἐκφόρια ἀποδιδότω τῶι Πασίωνι
r.17   ἀεὶ ἐν μηνὶ Παῦνι ἐν τῆι κώμηι νέα καθαρὰ καὶ ἄδολα,
r.18   καὶ μετὰ τὸν χρόνον παραδότω τὸ ἔδαφος καθαρὸν ἀπὸ
r.19   θρύου καλάμου ἀγρώστεως δείσης πάσης καὶ ἀναπεπαυμένον
r.20   καθὼς πρόκειται· ἐὰν δέ τις κοπρισμὸς γείνηται δώσει
r.21   ἕκαστος κατὰ τὸ ἥμισυ , τῆς πράξεως οὔσης τῶι Πασίωνι
r.22   ἔκ τε τοῦ Ἁρμιύσιος καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων αὐτῶι πάντων
r.23   καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης. βεβαιούτω δʼ αὐτῶι καὶ αὐτὸς ὁ Πασίων τὴν
r.24   μίσθωσιν ἐπὶ τοῖς προκειμένοις καὶ ἀπὸ δημοσίων. ὑπογραφεὺς
r.25   Ἡρακλᾶς Φαήσιος ὡς ἐτῶν εἴκοσι ἑνὸς οὐλὴ πήχει δεξιῶι.
r.26   Πασίων Πετάλου μεμίσθωκα
r.27   τὸν κλῆρον ἐπὶ πᾶσι πάντων
r.28   τῶν προγεγραμμένων καὶ βεβαιώσω. Ἁρμιῦσις Ὥρου Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς
r.29   μεμίσθωμαι τὸν περὶ Φιλαδελφῆαν
r.30   τοῦ Πασίωνος κλῆρον ἀρουρῶν τριῶν ἢ ὅσων
r.31   ἐὰν ᾖ ἐπικαλούμενον ἡμιαρουρίου
r.32   εἰς ἔτη τρία ἀπὸ τοῦ ὀγδόου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ ἐκφορίου τὰ μὲν
r.33   πρῶτα ἔτη δύο κατʼ ἔτος σὺν σπέρμασι
r.34   κριθῆς ἀρτάβα[ι]ς τρισὶ κριθῆς ἀρταβῶν
r.35   τριάκοντα τὸ δὲ ἔσχατον ἔτος εἰς
r.36   σπορὰν χόρτου εἰς κατάβρωμα καὶ κοιτασμὸν προβάτων ἀσπερμὶ πυροῦ ἀρταβῶν ἐννέα πάντα δὲ μέτρῳ τετάρτῳ
r.37   ἐμπόρω[ν], καὶ τὰ ἄλλα ποιήσω καθὼς πρόκειται. ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Ἡρακλᾶς
r.38   Παήσι[ο]ς διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰ[δ]έναι αὐτὸν
r.39   γράμματα. ἔτους ζ Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Μεσορὴ δ
r.40   ἀ[ν]αγέγραπται διὰ Βακχ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the seventh year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, in the month of Hyperberetaios,
2     on the fourth, (= ) Mesore the fourth, in Philadelphia of the Herakleides division of the
3     Arsinoite nome. Pasion son of Petalos, about forty-
4     nine years old, with a scar on his left thumb, leased to Harmiysis son of Horos, a Persian of the epigone,
5     about forty years old, with a scar on the first finger of his left hand,
6     the holding belonging to him around the aforewritten village, a holding (kleros)
7     of three arouras, or however many there may be, called Half-Aroura, for three years
8     from the coming eighth year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, at a rent
9     for the first two years, year by year — together with which the lessee shall receive
10    of seed three artabas of barley — of thirty artabas of barley;
11    and the third, which is the last year of the lease, for the sowing of fodder for the grazing and bedding-down of sheep, unsown, of wheat
12    nine artabas — all by the fourth (= quarter-) measure of merchants, exclusive of any deduction whatever. Let it therefore not be permitted to the lessee
13    to abandon the lease before the time, but let him also perform all the
14    yearly works of the holding and the dyke-work and the irrigation
15    and all the other agricultural care
16    at his own expense, and let him pay the yearly rents to Pasion
17    always in the month Pauni, in the village, new, clean and unadulterated,
18    and after the time let him hand over the soil clean of
19    rush, reed, dog's-tooth grass and all weeds, and let fallow,
20    as aforesaid; and if any manuring is done, each
21    shall give the half, the right of execution belonging to Pasion
22    both against Harmiysis and against all his property,
23    as if by judgement. And let Pasion himself also guarantee to him the
24    lease on the aforesaid terms and (free) from public (charges). The subscriber (is)
25    Heraklas son of Phaesis, about twenty-one years old, with a scar on his right forearm.
26    Pasion son of Petalos, I have leased
27    the holding on all the conditions, all
28    the aforewritten, and I will guarantee (it). Harmiysis son of Horos, a Persian of the epigone,
29    I have leased the holding of Pasion around Philadelphia,
30    of three arouras or however many
31    it may be, called Half-Aroura,
32    for three years from the eighth year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, as rent the
33    first two years, year by year, together with the seed,
34    three artabas of barley, of thirty artabas of
35    barley, and the last year for
36    the sowing of fodder for the grazing and bedding-down of sheep, unsown, of nine artabas of wheat — all by the fourth measure
37    of merchants; and I will do the other things as aforesaid. I, Heraklas
38    son of Paesis, wrote on his behalf, since he does not know
39    letters. Year 7 of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, Mesore 4.
40    It has been registered through Bakch(os).
