[META]
id:       P.Mich. 6.423dupl
label:    P.Mich. 6.423dupl
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       12262 48617
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;6;423dupl
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἱέρακι τῷ καὶ Νεμεσίωνι στρατηγῷ Ἀρσινοίτου Ἡρακλείδου μερίδος
r.2    παρὰ Γεμέλλου τοῦ καὶ Ὡρίωνος Γαίου Ἀπολιναρίου Ἀντινοέως. ἐνέτυχον, κύριε,
r.3    διὰ βιβλιδίου τῷ λαμπροτάτῳ ἡγεμόνι Αἰμιλίῳ Σατουρνείννῳ δηλῶν τὴν γενομένην μοι ἐπέλευσιν ὑπὸ Σώτου τινὸς καταφρονήσαντος τῆς περὶ τὴν ὄψιν μου ἀσθενείας βουλομένου αὐτοῦ τὰ ὑπάρχοντά μου κατασχεῖν βίᾳ καὶ αὐθαδίᾳ χρώμενου
r.4    καὶ ἔσχον ἱερὰν ὑπογραφὴν ἐντυχεῖν τῷ κρατίστῳ ἐπιστρατήγῳ· τοῦ δὲ Σώ[του] τελευτήσαντος, ὁ τούτου ἀδελφὸς Ἰούλιος καὶ αὐτὸς τὴν περὶ αὐτοὺ[ς] βίᾳ χρησάμενος ἐπῆλθεν τοῖς ἐσπαρμένοις ὑπʼ ἐμοῦ ἐδάφεσι καὶ ἐβάστασε οὐκ ὀλίγον χόρτον οὐ μόνον ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐξέκοψε ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντός μοι ἐ[λ]αιῶνος ὄντος περὶ κώμην Κερκεσοῦχα ἐλάϊνα φυτὰ ἀπεξηραμμένα καὶ ἐρίκινα, ἅπερ παραγενάμενος ἐνθάδε
r.5    πρὸς τὸν καιρὸν τῆς συνκομιδῆς ἔμαθον ταῦτα ὑπὸ αὐτοῦ πεπρᾶχθαι, ἐφʼ οἷς
r.6    μὴ ἀρκεσθεὶς πάλιν ἐπῆλθεν μετὰ τῆς γυναικὸς αὐτοῦ καὶ Ζηνᾶ τινος ἔχοντες βρέφος βουλόμενοι τὸν γεωργόν μου φθόνῳ περικλεῖσαι ὥστε καταλεῖψαι τὴν ἰδ[ί]αν γεωργίαν μετὰ τὸ θερίσαι ἐκ μέρους ἀπὸ ἑτέρου μου κλήρου,
r.7    καὶ αὐτοὶ συνεκομίσαντο. τούτων γενομένων ἐγενόμην πρὸς τὸν
r.8    Ἰούλιον μετὰ [δ]ημοσίων ὅπως αὐτὰ ταῦτα ἐνμάρτυρον γένηται. πάλιν
r.9    τῷ αὐτῷ τρόπῳ προσέριψάν μοι [τὸ] αὐτὸ βρέφος βουλόμενοι καὶ με φθόνῳ
r.10   περικλεῖσαι πα[ρό]ντων Πετεσούχου καὶ Πτολλᾶ πρεσβυτέρων κώμης Καρανίδος διαδεχο[μ]ένων καὶ τὰ κατὰ τὴν κωμογραμματείαν καὶ Σωκρᾶ
r.11   ὑπηρέτου, καὶ τῶν δημοσίων παρόντων τὸ βρέφος ὁ Ἰούλιος συνκομισάμενος τὰ περιγενόμενα ἐκ τῶν ἐδαφῶν γένη ἀπηνέγκατο εἰς τὴν
r.12   οἰκίαν αὐτοῦ, ἅπερ φανερὰ ἐποίησα διά τε τῶν αὐτῶν δημοσίων καὶ πρακτόρων σιτικῶν τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης. διὸ κατὰ τὸ ἀναγκαῖον ἐπιδίδωμι
r.13   καὶ ἀξιῶ τάδε τὰ βιβλίδια ἐν καταχωρισμῷ γενέσθω πρὸς τὸ μένειν μοι
r.14   τὸν λόγον πρὸς αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ τοῦ κρατίστου ἐπιστρατήγου περὶ τῶν ὑπʼ αὐτῶν τετολμημένων καὶ τῶν ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐδαφῶν δημοσίων ἐκφορίων
r.15   τῷ κυριακῷ λόγῳ διὰ τὸ αὐτοὺς οὐ δεόντως συνκεκομικέναι.
r.16   Γέμελλος ὁ καὶ Ὡρίων ὡς ἐτῶν κϛ ἀσθενὴς τὰς ὄψεις.
r.17   ἔτους ε Λουκίου Σεπτιμίου Σεουήρου Εὐσεβοῦς Περτίνακος Σεβαστοῦ Παχὼν κζ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Hierax also called Nemesion, strategos of the Heraclides division of the Arsinoite nome,
2     from Gemellus also called Horion, son of Gaius Apolinarius, of Antinoopolis. I petitioned, my lord,
3     by a petition to the most illustrious prefect Aemilius Saturninus, declaring the assault made upon me by a certain Sotas who, despising the weakness of my eyesight, wished to seize my property by force, employing violence and self-will;
4     and I obtained a sacred subscription to petition the most excellent epistrategos. But when Sotas had died, his brother Julius, himself too employing violence against us, entered upon the lands sown by me and carried off no little hay; not only that, but he also cut from the olive grove belonging to me, which is near the village Kerkesoucha, dried-up olive plants and tamarisks, which things, having come here
5     at the time of the harvest, I learned had been done by him; in addition to which,
6     not content, he again came with his wife and a certain Zenas, bringing an infant, wishing to hem in my farmer by malice so that he should abandon his own farming after he had reaped in part from another holding of mine,
7     and they themselves gathered in the crop. When these things had happened, I went to
8     Julius with public officials, so that these very deeds might be witnessed. Again
9     in the same manner they cast upon me the same infant, wishing to hem me in too by malice,
10    in the presence of Petesouchos and Ptollas, elders of the village of Karanis who are also administering the affairs of the village secretariat, and of Sokras
11    the assistant; and while the public officials were present, the infant being there, Julius, having gathered in the produce that grew from the lands, carried it off into
12    his house, which things I made manifest both through the same public officials and through the collectors of grain-taxes of the same village. Therefore of necessity I submit this
13    and request that these petitions be placed on record, so that there may remain to me
14    my claim against them before the most excellent epistrategos concerning the things ventured by them, and concerning the public rents of the lands
15    owed to the imperial account, because they harvested them improperly.
16    Gemellus also called Horion, about 26 years old, weak in his eyesight.
17    Year 5 of Lucius Septimius Severus Pius Pertinax Augustus, Pachon 27.
