[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.252dupl
label:    P.Mich. 5.252dupl
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     25 CE – 26 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (25 CE – 26 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Parachoresis
tm:       15159
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;252dupl
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀπολλώνιος καὶ Δίδυμος ἀμφότεροι Ἀπολλωνίου ὁμολογοῦμεν παρακεχωρηκέναι Ζήνωνι Πτολεμαίου ὥστε αὐτῶι καὶ ἐκγόνοις αὐτοῦ καὶ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ εἰς μετεπιγραφὴν ἀπὸ τῆς προγεγραμμένης
r.2    ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος ἡμῖν πατρικοῦ κατοικικοῦ κλήρου περὶ Ταλεὶ τῆς Πολέμωνος ἀπὸ ἀρουρῶν τεσσάρων ἢ ὅσοι ἐὰν ὦσι [ἀρούρας δύο ] ἐκ τοῦ πρὸς ἀπηλιώτου μέρο[υ]ς σὺν τῶι ἐφετείωι κριθίνωι σπόρωι, καὶ παραδώσομεν σχοινίωι ἐνενηκονταεξαπήχει τῶι πρὸς τῇ ἐπὶ τοῦ Φρεμεὶ κρηπῖδι πήχει ξυλικῶι τεκτονικῶι τελείωι· ὧν γείτονες τῶν παρακεχωρημένων
r.3    ἀρουρῶν δύο νότου Ταορσεῦτος τῆς Χαιρήμωνος κλῆρος ἀνὰ μέσον ὄντος ἐξομβριστῆρος, βορρᾶ Μυσθαρίωνος τοῦ Πύρρου ἀμπελὼν καὶ Ἀλκίμου κλῆρος, λιβὸς ἡμῶν αἱ λοιπαὶ ἄρουραι δύο , ἀπηλιώτου τοῦ πριαμένου Ζήνωνος κλῆρος ἐφʼ ὧι τὸν ποτισμὸν καὶ τὴν ἔκχυσιν ποιήσεται κατὰ τὴν ἔτι ἄνωθεν συνήθεια[ν]. καὶ ἀπέχομεν τὸ παραχωρητικὸν ἀργυρικὸν κεφάλαιον καὶ βεβαιώσομεν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων καὶ ἐπιγραφῶν καὶ ἀρταβείας καὶ ναυβίων καὶ ἀριθμητικῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων πάντων εἰδῶν [τῶν] ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ δωδεκάτου ἔτους
r.4    Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ καὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ δωδεκάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐμποιήσεως διὰ παντὸς ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον. εὐδοκεῖ δὲ ἡ τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου γυνὴ Ταπάεις ἡ καὶ Ταπιτῦνις Πετεεῦτος καὶ ἡ τοῦ Διδύμου γυνὴ Ταορσεῦς Μιεῦτος μετὰ κυρίου ἑκατέρας τοῦ ἀνδρὸς καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Ἡρώδης Ἡρώδου
r.5    διὰ τὸ τὸν μὲν Ἀπολλώνιον μὴ εἰδέναι γράμματα, τὸν δὲ Δίδυμον βραδύτερον γράφειν. Δίδυμος Ἀπολλωνίου ἐπιτέταχα γράφειν ἐπὶ τοῖς προκιμένοις καὶ συναπέχω καὶ συνβεβαιώσω καθὼς πρόκιται. Ζήνων
r.6    Πτολεμαίου γέγον[ε] εἴς [με] ἡ παραχ[ώ]ρησ[ις] τῶν δύο ἀρ[ουρ]ῶν τῶν κατοικικῶν σεπιπαστυπροσκανης.

[TRANSLATION]
1     We, Apollonios and Didymos, both sons of Apollonios, acknowledge that we have ceded to Zenon son of Ptolemaios, so that it belong to him and to his descendants and to those acting for him, by way of re-registration, from the aforewritten
2     day for all time, from the paternal catoecic holding belonging to us around Talei in the (division) of Polemon, out of four arouras or however many there may be, [two arouras] from the eastern side, together with the barley-crop of this year; and we shall hand them over by the rope of ninety-six cubits, that at the embankment by Phremei, by the carpenter's full wooden cubit; of which two ceded arouras the neighbors are:
3     on the south, the holding of Taorseus daughter of Chairemon, with a rain-water channel running between; on the north, the vineyard of Mystharion son of Pyrrhos and the holding of Alkimos; on the west, our remaining two arouras; on the east, the holding of the purchaser Zenon, on which he shall do the watering and the drainage according to the long-standing custom from of old. And we have received the cession-price, the capital sum in silver, and we shall guarantee with every guarantee, free both from public (charges) and assessments and the artaba-tax and naubia and counting-fees and all the other categories from former times up to the twelfth year
4     of Tiberius Caesar Augustus and of that very twelfth year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, and free from private (charges) and every claim, through and for all time. And the wife of Apollonios, Tapaeis also called Tapitynis daughter of Peteeus, and the wife of Didymos, Taorseus daughter of Mieus, each with her husband as guardian, give their consent and (agree) not to proceed against (it). Herodes son of Herodes wrote on their behalf
5     because Apollonios does not know letters, and Didymos writes rather slowly. I, Didymos son of Apollonios, have given order to write upon the aforesaid (terms), and I jointly receive and shall jointly guarantee as aforesaid. Zenon
6     son of Ptolemaios: the cession of the two catoecic arouras has come to [me] … (illegible).
