[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.277
label:    P.Mich. 5.277
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     48 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (48 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Haus
tm:       12115
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;277
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Κρονίων Λα[βήσεως μητρὸς ][Ταπνεβ]τύνεως ὡς ἐτῶν κζ οὐλὴ ῥι[ν]ὶ ὑπὸ μεσοφρύῳ [Ἀπολλωνίῳ] ἐτῶν μδ οὐλὴ δακτύλῳ μικρῷ χειρὸς ἀριστερᾶς καὶ ἀντικνημίῳ ἀριστερῷ οἰκίαν μονόστεγον ἐν Τεβτύνει, νότου τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ Λαβήσεως οἰκία, καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ ἀποδομένου αὐλύδριον,
r.2    [βορρᾶ το]ῦ πριαμένο[υ Ἀπολλωνίου ο]ἰκία καὶ αὐλύδριο[ν], λιβὸς Ὀρσενούφιος τοῦ Χαλλήους οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ πριαμένου Ἀπολλωνίου αὐλύδριον καὶ ὁμοίως ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἀποδομένου Κρονίωνος αὐλύδριον, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική.
r.3    η ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ
r.4    Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος
r.5    Μεχὶρ η.
r.6    ἄχρηστα ἐγένετο χάριν τῆς γυ.
r.7    Κρονίων Λαβ[ήσε]ως μητρὸς Ταπνευτύνιος ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι τῶι ὁμοπατρίωι μου καὶ ὁμομητρίωι μου ἀδελφῶι Ἀπολλωνίωι κατὰ τήνδε τὴν πρᾶσιν ταύτην ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα
r.8    χρόνον τὴν ὑπάρχουσάν μοι οἰκίαν μονόστεγον καὶ τὰ συνκύροντα πάντα ἐν Τεβτύνει· ὧν γείτονες ταύτης νότου τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ μου Λαβήσεως οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος ἐμοῦ τοῦ ἀποδομένου Κρονίωνος
r.9    μέρος αὐ[λυδρίο]υ, βορρᾶ τοῦ πριαμένου Ἀπ[ο]λλωνίου οἰκία καὶ αὐλύδρι[ο]ν, λιβὸς Ὀρσενούφιος τοῦ Χαλήους οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ πριαμένου Ἀπολλωνίου αὐλύδριον καὶ ὁμοίως ἐπί τι μέρος ἐμοῦ τοῦ ἀποδομένου Κρονίω[ν]ος αὐλύδριον, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική. καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου τὴν συνκεχωρημένην τιμὴν πᾶσαν ἐκ πλήρους παραχρῆμα διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ βεβαιώσω τὴν πρᾶσιν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ ὀγδόου ἔτους καὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ ὀγδόου ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ [πά]σης ἐμποιήσεως ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον. εὐδοκεῖ δὲ ἡ γυνή μου Ταμαρρῆς Ὀρσεῦτος μητρὸς Τααρμιύσιος τῆι πράσει ταύτῃ καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον μηδʼ ἐγκαλέσειν μηδὲ ἄλλον ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς καθὼς πρόκειται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Λυσίμαχος Λυσιμάχου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα. Ἀπολλώνι[ο]ς Λαβήσεως μητρὸς Ταπνεβτύνεως γέγονε εἴς με
r.10   ἡ πρᾶσις τ[ῆ]ς οἰκίας καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Ἥρων ὃς καὶ Σάγατος Ἁρυώτου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Kronion son of Labesis, his mother being Tapnebtynis, about 27 years old, with a scar on the nose below the brow, to Apollonios, 44 years old, with a scar on the little finger of the left hand and on the left shin: (he sells) a single-storey house in Tebtynis, on the south the house of the brother Labesis, and on a part the small courtyard of the seller,
2     [on the north] the house and small courtyard of the buyer [Apollonios], on the west the house of Orsenouphis son of Challes, and on a part the small courtyard of the buyer Apollonios, and likewise on a part the small courtyard of the same seller Kronion, on the east a royal street.
3     Year 8 of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus
4     Germanicus Imperator,
5     Mecheir 8.
6     It became void on account of the wo(man).
7     Kronion son of Labesis, his mother being Tapneutynis, I acknowledge that I have sold to my brother by the same father and same mother, Apollonios, by this present sale from the present day for all
8     time, the single-storey house belonging to me and all that goes with it in Tebtynis, of which the neighbours of this are: on the south the house of my brother Labesis and on a part of me, the seller Kronion,
9     a portion of the small courtyard; on the north the house and small courtyard of the buyer Apollonios; on the west the house of Orsenouphis son of Chales, and on a part the small courtyard of the buyer Apollonios, and likewise on a part of me the seller Kronion the small courtyard; on the east a royal street. And I have received from Apollonios the whole agreed price in full, on the spot, hand to hand, out of the house, and I will guarantee the sale with every guarantee, free both from public (dues) of the times above down to the eighth year and that very eighth year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, and from private (claims) and every laying-of-claim for all time. And my wife Tamarres daughter of Orseus, her mother being Taarmiysis, consents to this sale and (agrees) not to come against it for all time nor to make claim, nor another on her behalf, as is set forth. Lysimachos son of Lysimachos wrote on their behalf because they do not know letters. Apollonios son of Labesis, his mother being Tapnebtynis: there has been made to me
10    the sale of the house as is set forth. Heron also called Sagatos son of Haryotes wrote on his behalf because he does not know letters.
