[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.335dupl
label:    P.Mich. 5.335dupl
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     56 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (56 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Hypothek
tm:       12144
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;335dupl
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Πετεσοῦχος ἐτῶν μ
r.2    πήχει δεξιῷ
r.3    Κρονίων ἐτῶν ν
r.4    ῥινὶ ἐξ ἀριστερῶν
r.5    Πετεσοῦχος Ἡρακλήου Βήσεως ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι Κρονίωνι Ὀρσεῦτος ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν ἐπὶ τὸν
r.6    ἅπαντα χρόνον τὴν ὑπάρχουσάν μοι οἰκίαν δίστεγον καὶ αὐλήν, ἐν ἧι καὶ ἐξέδρα καινὴ δίστεγος,
r.7    καὶ παραδρομίδα καὶ τὰ συγκύροντα πάντα ἐν Τεβτύνει· ὧν γείτονες πάντων νότου
r.8    Κρονίωνος νεωτέρου Ζωίλου τόποι καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος Σιγήρεως τοῦ Σιγήρεως τόποι, βορρᾶ Κρονίωνος
r.9    πρεσβυτέρου Ζωίλου τόποι καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος Κρονίωνος τοῦ Διονυσίου τόποι, λίβος Ἀπίωνος τοῦ Κρονίωνος οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος τῆς παραδρομίδος ῥύμη βασιλικὴ καὶ ὁμοίως ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ προγεγραμμένου Κρονίωνος νεωτέρου Ζωίλου αἴθριον, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική· καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Κρονίωνος τὴν τιμὴν ἐκ πλήρους διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου, καὶ βεβαιώσω τοῖς κατὰ τὴν ὁμολογίαν ταύτην πάσῇ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων καὶ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐνποίησεως ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον καθὼς
r.10   πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Σαραπίων Πτολεμαίου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα.
r.11   Πετεσοῦχος Ἡρακλήου Βήσεως Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ἔχω τὸ δάνειον παρὰ Κρονίωνος τοῦ Ὀρσεῦτος τὰς τοῦ ἀργυρίου ἐπισήμου κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς τετρακοσίας τεσσαράκοντα ὀκτὼ τόκου ὡς ἐκ
r.12   δραχμῆς μιᾶς τῇ μνᾷ τὸν μῆνα ἕκαστον, ἃς καὶ ἀποδώσω
r.13   ἐν μηνὶ Μεχεὶρ τοῦ τρίτου ἔτους Νέρωνος Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος
r.14   Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν
r.15   ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Σαραπίων Πτολεμαίου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα.
r.16   ὑποθήκη Πετεσούχου πρὸς Κρονίωνα
r.17   δραχμῶν υμη.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Petesouchos, 40 years old,
2     scar on the right forearm.
3     Kronion, 50 years old,
4     scar on the nose, on the left.
5     Petesouchos son of Herakleios, grandson of Beses, I acknowledge that I have sold to Kronion son of Orseus, from now for
6     all time, the two-storey house and courtyard belonging to me, in which also a new two-storey exedra,
7     and a passage-way and all that goes with (them), in Tebtynis; of which the neighbours of all (are): on the south,
8     the plots of Kronion the younger, son of Zoilos, and on a certain part the plots of Sigeris son of Sigeris; on the north, of Kronion
9     the elder, son of Zoilos, the plots, and on a certain part the plots of Kronion son of Dionysios; on the west, the house of Apion son of Kronion, and on a certain part of the passage-way a royal street, and likewise on a certain part the airy-court of the aforesaid Kronion the younger, son of Zoilos; on the east, a royal street. And I have received from Kronion the price in full, hand to hand, out of the house; and I will guarantee to those (named) in this acknowledgement, with every guarantee, free of public and private (claims) and all claim for all time as
10    is set forth. There wrote on his behalf Sarapion son of Ptolemaios because he does not know letters.
11    Petesouchos son of Herakleios, grandson of Beses, a Persian of the epigone: I have the loan from Kronion son of Orseus, the four hundred forty-eight drachmas of stamped silver principal, at interest of
12    one drachma per mina each month, which I will also repay
13    in the month Mecheir of the third year of Nero Claudius Caesar
14    Augustus Germanicus Imperator as is set forth. There wrote
15    on his behalf Sarapion son of Ptolemaios because he does not know letters.
16    Mortgage of Petesouchos to Kronion
17    of 448 drachmas.
