[META]
id:       P.Mich. 13.666
label:    P.Mich. 13.666
name:     Contract — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     616 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (616 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Weingarten — Bäume — Geld — Getreide — Gemüse — Holz — Gerät — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       21378
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;13;666
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    … [ ἰνδικ]τίο[νος]
r.2    Αὐρήλ[ιο]ς Μηνᾶς ἐκ [π]ατρὸς Ψάτε … [ σ]υντελεστὴς ἀπ[ὸ]
r.3    κώμης Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου [νο]μοῦ Αὐρηλίῳ Κολλούθῳ [υ]ἱ[ῷ]
r.4    Χριστοφόρῳ καὶ αὐτῷ συντελεστῇ ἀπὸ κώμης Ἀφροδίτης χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ
r.5    ἑκὼν καὶ πεπεισμένος μεμισθῶσ[θ]αι παρὰ σοῦ πρ[ὸ]ς τετραέτη χρόνον
r.6    λο[γι]ζ[ό]μενον ἀπὸ καρπῶν τῆς σ[ὺν] θεῷ [ἕ]κτης ἰνδικτίονος καὶ αὐτῆς καὶ τοῦ ἑξῆς
r.7    χρόνου τὸ ὑπάρχον σοι ὁλόκληρον κτῆμα ὑποστάσεως ἀρουρ[ῶν ὅσων ἐσ]τὶ[ν]
r.8    καλούμενον Πρμρης σὺν δυσὶ λάκκοις καὶ μονῇ καὶ πύργῳ καὶ ἐπαύλει
r.9    καὶ ἀχυροθήκῃ καὶ χωρίῳ καὶ πωμαρίῳ καὶ λαχανείᾳ καὶ φυτοῖς καὶ φοίνιξι
r.10   καὶ ἐλαιῶσι καὶ συκαμινέοις κ[αὶ] κι[τ]ρίοις καὶ ἀκανθέαις καὶ πᾶσι τοῖς
r.11   φυτοῖς διαφέροις ἐγκάρποις τε καὶ ἀκάρποις καὶ ταῖς περιεξόθεν ἀρουραῖς καὶ
r.12   δικαίοις πᾶσι ἐντὸς καὶ ἐκτὸς πρὸς τὰ παλαιὰ αὐτοῦ ὅρια κυκλόθεν διακείμενου
r.13   ἐν τῇ λιβικῇ πεδιάδι τῆς αὐτ[ῆς] κώμης Ἀφροδίτης κλήρου Ἀνουφίου ἐφʼ ᾧ με
r.14   τοῦτο ἔχειν ὑπʼ ἐμὲ εἰς γεωργίαν καὶ εἰς κατάθεσιν ὑφʼ ἡμίσειαν καὶ τὴν πᾶσαν
r.15   γεωργικὴν καὶ ἀμπελουργικὴν ἐργασίαν ποιήσασθαι ἐκ τῶν ἰδίων μου
r.16   ζῴων καὶ ἀναλωμάτων καὶ γεωργῶν καὶ ποτίσαι ἀδιαλείπτως ἀκαταφρονήτως
r.17   καὶ σκάπτειν καὶ κλαδοτομεῖν καὶ ὑπορθοῦν καὶ φυλαουργεῖν καὶ σὺν θεῷ τὸ
r.18   περιεσόμενον ἐξ αὐτοῦ γλεῦκος καὶ τὸν καρπὸν τῶν φοινίκων καὶ τοῦ
r.19   πωμαρίου μερισθῆναι εἰς ἡμᾶς ἀνὰ τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος, ἐμὲ μὲν λαβεῖν μέρος ἓν
r.20   ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐμῶν καμάτων, σὲ δὲ λαβεῖν μέρος ἕν ὑπὲρ τοῦ γεουχικοῦ σου μέρους
r.21   [καὶ] ὅτε καλαμιῶ καὶ τὰς λεπτὰς σχεῖν εἰς τὴν χρείαν τοῦ ὑπορθοῦν καὶ τὸ
r.22   ἥμισυ τοῦ μισθοῦ τῆς ξυλίνης ὀργάνης ἐκ τοῦ κοινοῦ ἀποπληρώσομεν καὶ ἑτοίμως ἔχω
r.23   διδόναι σοι ὑπὲρ ἀποτάκτου φόρου τῶν περιεξόθεν ἀρουρῶν καθʼ ἕτος ἐν τελείῳ
r.24   καὶ ἀβροχικῷ, ὃ μὴ εἴη, σίτου καθαροῦ καὶ φορικοῦ ἀρτάβας δέκα μέτρῳ ἐμοῦ
r.25   καὶ χρυσοῦ νομισμάτιον ἓν παρὰ κεράτιον ἓν τῷ σταθμῷ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης,
r.26   γίνονται σίτου ἀρτάβαι ι καὶ χρυσοῦ νομισμάτιον α παρὰ κεράτιον α, καὶ ταῦτα καταβαλεῖν σοι καθʼ ἕτος τὸν μὲν σῖτον ἐν τῇ
r.27   ἁλωνίᾳ, τὸ δὲ ἓν νομισμάτιον ἐν καιρῷ τοῦ δημοσίου πρὸς τὰ δόξαντα. ἔχω σου καὶ
r.28   ὀφείλω ὑπὲρ τῆς προχρείας τῶν βοικῶν ζῴων τοῦτʼ ἔστιν χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια
r.29   ὀκτὼ ἕκαστον παρὰ κεράτιον ἓν ταῦτα λογίσασθαί σοι ἐν καιρῷ τελειώσεως
r.30   τοῦ χρόνου τῆς παρούση[ς] ἐγγράφου μισθώσεως πρὸς τὰ δόξαντα ἀναμφιλόγως
r.31   ἡ μίσθωσις κυρί[α] ἔσται καὶ βεβαία καὶ ἐφʼ ἅπαντα ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὥμολόγησα. δηλονότι καὶ ὥστε ἐμὲ διδόναι σοι ὑπὲρ τῆς συμπληρώσεως τοῦ φόρου ὑπὲρ τῶν περιεξόθεν
r.32   ἀρουρῶν τοῦτʼ ἔστιν οὕτως· εἰ δὲ σπεροῦμαι φασούλια ἐπʼ ἔτη ἀπολογίσασθαί σοι φασουλίων
r.33   ἀρτάβας πέντε , εἰ δὲ μὴ σπεροῦμαι φασούλια ἀπολογίσασθαί σοι κριθῶν ἀρτάβας
r.34   πέντε πρὸς τὰ δόξαντα καὶ ἐπὶ τῷ ἐμὲ ἀπολογίσασθαί σοι ἐργαλίδιον σιδηροῦν λιτρῶν
r.35   δέκα ἥμισυ ἐν καιρῷ ἀποστῆναι τοῦ αὐτοῦ κτήματος ὑπὲρ τῶν προείληφα παρὰ σοῦ καὶ πάλιν
r.36   ὡμολόγησα καὶ ἐξεῖναί μοι μίαν φοίνικα καθʼ ἕτος εἰς λόγον τοῦ γεωργοῦ ὑπὲρ τῆς φιλοκαλίας
r.37   τῶν ὅλων φοινίκων. ανοκ μηνα περ ψατε στοιχεῖ μοι ταύτῃ τῇ μισθώσει ὡς πρόκειται.
r.38   Αὐρήλιος Ψάτης Ἀνανία μαρτυρῶ ταύτῃ τῇ μισθώσει ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Γεώργιος Ὀννοφρίου μαρτυρῶ ταύτῃ τῇ μισθώσει ὡς πρόκειται.
r.39   διʼ ἐμοῦ Κολλούθου σὺν θεῷ ταβελλίωνος ἐγράφη.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … of the … indiction.
2     Aurelius Menas, son of Psate…, … tax-payer from
3     the village of Aphrodite of the Antaiopolite nome, to Aurelius Kollouthos, son
4     of Christophoros, himself also a tax-payer from the village of Aphrodite, greeting. I acknowledge,
5     of my own free will and being persuaded, that I have leased from you for a four-year period
6     reckoned from the crops of the, God willing, sixth indiction, both it and the following
7     time, the whole estate belonging to you, of a holding of however many arouras it is,
8     called Prmres, with two cisterns and a dwelling and a tower and a farmstead
9     and a chaff-store and a plot and an orchard and a vegetable-garden and plants and date-palms
10    and olive-trees and mulberry-trees and citrons and acacias and all the
11    various plants, both fruit-bearing and unfruitful, and the surrounding arouras and
12    all rights within and without, up to its old boundaries lying round about,
13    in the western plain of the same village of Aphrodite, of the holding of Anouphios, on condition that I
14    have this under me for cultivation and for planting on a half-share basis, and perform all
15    the agricultural and viticultural labour from my own
16    animals and expenses and farmhands, and irrigate unceasingly, without neglect,
17    and dig and prune and prop and tend the plants, and, God willing,
18    the must resulting from it, and the fruit of the date-palms and of the
19    orchard, be divided between us, each a half-share — I to take one share
20    for my labours, and you to take one share for your landlord's share —
21    and when I cut the reeds, to have the small ones for the use of propping, and the
22    half of the rent of the wooden machine we shall pay out from the common fund; and I am ready
23    to give you, on account of fixed rent for the surrounding arouras, each year, both in a full
24    and a drought year, which may not be, ten artabas of clean and marketable grain by my measure,
25    and one gold solidus less one keration by the standard of the same village of Aphrodite,
26    making 10 artabas of grain and 1 gold solidus less 1 keration; and to pay these to you each year, the grain on the
27    threshing-floor, and the one solidus at the time of the public tax according to what has been agreed. I owe you and
28    am indebted on account of the advance for the ox-animals, that is, eight gold solidi,
29    each less one keration, these to be reckoned to you at the time of the completion
30    of the period of the present written lease according to what has been agreed, beyond dispute.
31    The lease shall be valid and secure, and in answer to all the formal questions I gave my assent. It being understood also that I am to give you, toward the completion of the rent for the surrounding
32    arouras, that is, thus: if I sow beans for the years, to account to you of beans
33    five artabas, but if I do not sow beans, to account to you of barley
34    five artabas, according to what has been agreed; and on condition that I account to you for an iron tool of ten
35    and a half pounds at the time of departing from the same estate, in respect of what I have received in advance from you; and again
36    I have agreed, and that it be permitted me one date-palm each year on account of the farmer for the tending
37    of all the date-palms. I, Mena son of Psate, this lease satisfies me as set out above.
38    I, Aurelius Psates son of Ananias, bear witness to this lease as set out above. I, Aurelius Georgios son of Onnophrios, bear witness to this lease as set out above.
39    Through me, Kollouthos, the notary, God willing, it was written.
