[META]
id:       P.MICHAEL 46
label:    P.MICHAEL 46
name:     Contract — Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     559 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Aphrodites Kome (Antaiopolites) (559 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Land — Landgut — Teil — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       21422
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.michael;;46
lat:      26.9528190683
lon:      31.5960498491

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλ[είας Φλαουίου Ἰουστινιανοῦ τοῦ αἰω]νίου Αὐγούστου Αὐτοκράτορος
r.2    ἔτους τριακοστοῦ τρίτου, μετὰ τὴν ὑπατείαν Φλαουίου Βασιλείου τοῦ ἐνδοξοτάτου ἔτους ὀκτωκαιδεκάτου,
r.3    Μεσορὴ κγ ὀγδόης ἰ[νδικτίονο]ς
r.4    Αὐρήλιος Βῆσις ἐκ πατρὸς Φοιβάμμωνος ἐκ μητρὸς Ταβῆ[ς] ποιμὴν ὁρμώμενος ἀπὸ κώμης Ἀφροδίτης
r.5    τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου νομοῦ, Αὐρηλίοις Φοιβάμμωνι υἱῷ Τριαδέλφου καὶ Βίκτορι υἱῷ Κολλούθου τοῖς
r.6    θαυμασιωτάτοις συντελεσταῖς ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ ἑκουσίως καὶ αὐθαιρέτως μεμισθῶσθαι
r.7    παρʼὑμῶν πρὸς τριέτη χρόνον λογιζόμενον ἀπὸ καρπῶν τῆς σὺν Θεῷ εὐτυχῶς ἐσομένης
r.8    ἐννάτης ἰνδικτίονος καὶ αὐτῆς καὶ τοῦ ἑξῆς χρόνου τὸ ὑπ[ά]ρχον ὑμῖν ὁλόκληρον μέρος τοῦ ὁλοκλήρου
r.9    γεωργίου ἀρουρῶν ὅσων ἐστιν … νοσ … σ … υ σὺν μέρει τοῦ ἐκεῖσε λάκκου καὶ δεξαμενῇ
r.10   καὶ μονῇ καὶ λαχανιᾷ μετὰ παντὸς τούτου τοῦ δικαίου πρὸς τὰ ἀρχαῖα αὐτοῦ ὅρια κυκλόθεν διακειμένα
r.11   ἐν τῇ ἀπηλιωτικῇ πεδιάδι τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης μετὰ γῆς Φοιβάμμωνος· ἐφʼ ᾧ με τοῦτο ἐχειν
r.12   ὑπʼ ἐμὲ καὶ τὴν πᾶσαν γεωργικὴν ἐργασίαν ποιήσασθαι ἐκ τῶν ἰδίων μου ζῴων καὶ
r.13   ἀναλωμάτων καὶ γεωργῶν, πρὸς συγκλισμὸν τοῦ παντὸς τοῦ κλήρου ἐν τελείῳ καὶ ἀβροχικῷ,
r.14   ὅ μὴ εἴη, ἐφʼ ἡμίσεως … [δ]ικαίων … ση
r.15   κατὰ τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος, ἐμαυτὸν λαβεῖν μέρους ἓν ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐμῶν καμάτων, ὑμᾶς δὲ λαβεῖν μέρους
r.16   ἓν ὑπὲρ τῶν ἐκφορίων· τῆς δὲ σπερμοβολίας … ερχομένης …
r.17   εν ἐπέργου, καὶ τὴν τούτων μεταφορὰν ποιήσω τοῦ γεωργικοῦ ὑμῶν μέρους γενήματός τε καὶ ἀχύρου
r.18   ἕως τῆς ὑμῶν οἰκίας, τοῦ ἀναλώματος ἐκ τοῦ κοινοῦ ἀποπληρώσομεν· ὥστε ὑμᾶς λαβεῖν
r.19   κατʼ ἔτος τὸν μισθὸν τοῦ ξυλίνου ὑμῶν ὀργάνου εἰς κοινά, καὶ τὸ ἀνάλωμα ἐκ τοῦ κοινοῦ ἡμῶν
r.20   ἀποπληρώσομεν· εἰ δὲ μέρος καταφρονήσω τῆς γεωργίας, ἐφʼ ᾧ δὲ ὑμᾶς λαβεῖν τὸ μέρος
r.21   ὑμῶν ἀπὸ τοῦ πεφιλοκαλημένου· παρέξω δὲ ὑμῖν καθʼ ἔτος τυροὺς ξηροὺς γεουχικοὺς
r.22   καλοὺς τεσσεράκοντα καὶ λεμψάνης κολοβὰ δύο ἀναμφιλόγως. ἡ μίσθωσι[ς] κυρία ἔσται
r.23   καὶ βεβαία, καὶ ἐφʼ ἅπαντα ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα δισσὴν γραφὴν ὁμότυπον. Αὐρήλιος Βῆσις
r.24   Φοιβάμμωνος ὁ προγεγραμμένος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρήλιος Ἰεζηκιὴλ Βίκτορος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα
r.25   ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος. Αὐρήλιος Ἰωάννης Ἀβρααμμίου μαρτυρῶ τῇ μισθώσει ἀκούσας
r.26   παρὰ τοῦ θεμένου.
r.27   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἑρμαυῶτος νομικοῦ ἐγράφη …

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign [of Flavius Justinian the et]ernal Augustus, Emperor,
2     in the thirty-third year, after the consulship of Flavius Basilius the most glorious, in the eighteenth year,
3     Mesore 23, of the eighth in[dictio]n.
4     Aurelius Besis, son of Phoibammon, of his mother Tabe, shepherd, originating from the village of Aphrodite
5     of the Antaiopolite nome, to Aurelii Phoibammon son of Triadelphos and Victor son of Kollouthos, the
6     most admirable tax-collectors from the same village of Aphrodite, greeting. I acknowledge of my own free will and choice that I have leased
7     from you for a three-year term, reckoned from the crops of the ninth indiction, prosperously to be with God,
8     both itself and of the following time, the whole part belonging to you of the whole
9     farmstead, of however many arouras it is … with a share of the cistern there and reservoir
10    and farmstead-dwelling and vegetable-plot, with all this right, up to its ancient boundaries lying round about
11    in the eastern plain of the same village of Aphrodite, with the land of Phoibammon; on condition that I have this
12    under me and do all the agricultural labour out of my own animals and
13    expenses and farm-hands, toward the full completion of the whole plot in perfection and free of drought,
14    which may it not be, on the half … [r]ights … se
15    according to the half part, I taking one share for my labours, and you taking
16    one share for the rents; and of the seed-sowing … coming …
17    in extra-work, and I will do the transport of these things, of your agricultural share both of produce and of chaff,
18    up to your house, and the expense we will pay out from the common (account); so that you receive
19    each year the rent of your wooden device (waterwheel) into the common (account), and the expense from our common (account)
20    we will pay out; and if I should neglect a part of the farming, on condition that you take your share
21    from the well-tended (land); and I will furnish you each year dry estate-cheeses,
22    good ones, forty, and two cropped lambskins, without dispute. The lease shall be valid
23    and secure, and on being questioned about everything I assented, in a double identical copy. I, Aurelius Besis
24    son of Phoibammon, the aforewritten, have leased as is stated above. I, Aurelius Iezekiel son of Victor, having been requested, wrote
25    on his behalf, he not knowing letters. I, Aurelius Ioannes son of Abrammios, bear witness to the lease, having heard
26    from the one who made it.
27    Through me, Hermauos the notary, it was written …
