[META]
id:       P.Mich. 3.187
label:    P.Mich. 3.187
name:     Contract — Bakchias (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     75 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Bakchias (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Bakchias (Arsinoites) (75 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Abschrift — Vertrag — Besitz (Sklaven, Höfe) — Erbschaft — Unterschriften
tm:       11990
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;3;187
lat:      29.536946
lon:      31.0041595

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ἑβδόμου Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Οὐεσπασιανοῦ Σεβαστοῦ, μηνὸς Καισαρείου ἐπαγομένων
r.2    δευτέρᾳ, ἐν Βακχιάδι τῆς Ἡρακλείδου μερίδος τοῦ Ἀρσινοίτου νομοῦ. ὁμολογοῦ[σι]
r.3    ἀλλήλοις Ὡρίων Ὡρίωνος τοῦ Μενχείους ὡς ἐτῶν [ἑ]βδομήκοντα , οὐλὴ μετώπῳ μέσῳ, καὶ Ὧ[ρος Ὥρου]
r.4    τοῦ Πετεύριος ὡς ἐτῶν τεσσαράκοντα δύο , οὐλὴ καμπ[ῇ ][χ]ειρὸς δεξιᾶς, οἱ δύ[ο], διῃρῆσθαι πρὸς ἑαυτοὺς [ἀπὸ τῆς]
r.5    ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον τὰ ὑπ[άρ]χοντα αὐτοῖς μέρη πατρικῶν οἰκο[πέδων]
r.6    καὶ αὐλῶν ἅπερ ἐστὶν τέταρτον μέρος καὶ τρίτον ἀπὸ δωδεκάτου μέρους, ὅ ἐστιν τριακόσθεκτον
r.7    μέρος κοινῶν καὶ ἀδιαιρέτων ὄντων ἐν τρισὶ σφραγῖσι ἐν τῇ προγεγραμμένῃ κώμῃ Βακχιάδι
r.8    ἐν τῇ λεγομένῃ Βορρείτει λαύρᾳ, ὧν πάντων αἱ γειτονείαι διὰ τῶν περὶ τούτων οἰκονομιῶν δηλοῦνται, καὶ ἐξ ἧς πεποίηνται πρὸς ἑαυτοὺς ἐξ εὐδοκούντων ἐκ κλήρου διαιρέσεως καὶ λελογχέναι τὸν μὲν Ὡρίωνα εἰς τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῷ μέρος τὸ προγεγραμμένον τέταρτον μέρος
r.9    τῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ αὐλῶν κοινὸν καὶ ἀδιαίρετον, τὸν δὲ Ὧρον καὶ αὐτὸν λελογχέναι
r.10   εἰς τὸ καὶ αὐτῷ ἐπιβάλλον μέρος τὸ προγεγραμμένον τρίτον τοῦ δωδεκάτου μέρους,
r.11   ὅ ἐστιν τριακόσ[θ]εκτον μέρος τῶν αὐτῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ αὐλῶ[ν] κοινὸν καὶ ἀδιαίρετον,
r.12   ὧν ἐστιν αὐτοῦ Ὥρου τὸ ἄλλο τριακόσθεκτον μέρος τῶν αὐτῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ αὐλῶν,
r.13   καὶ αὐτοῦ Ὥρου καὶ τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ ἀδελφοῦ, ὡς προφέρονται οἱ ἐμφερόμενοι, ἄλλο πατρικὸν δωδέκατον μέρος τῶν αὐτῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ αὐλῶν, ὥστε τὸ ὅλον αὐτοῦ Ὥρου
r.14   μόνου ὀκτωκαιδέκατον τετρακαιεικοστὸν μέρος τῶν αὐτῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ
r.15   αὐλῶν. ἐμμενέτωσαν οὖν οἱ ὁμολογοῦντες καὶ ἑκάτερος αὐτῶν καὶ οἱ παρʼ αὐτῶν ἐν
r.16   τοῖς κατὰ τήν[δε] διαίρεσιν ταύτην σημαινομένοις π[ᾶσ]ι καὶ μὴ ἐξ[εῖν]αι αὐτοῖ[ς]
r.17   μηδὲ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτῶν ἀθετῆσαί τι τούτων διῃρημένων, ἀλλὰ δὲ ἕκαστον αὐτῶν
r.18   καὶ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτῶν μεταλημψομένους κυριεύειν καὶ δεσπόζειν ὧν ἕκα[σ]τος
r.19   αὐτῶν κεκλήρωται καθὼς πρόκειται, καὶ χρᾶσθαι ἕκαστον αὐτῶν καθʼ ὃν ἐὰν
r.20   βούλωνται τρόπον ἀπαραποδίστως. καὶ πρὸς τὰ προκίμενα καὶ διῃρημένα
r.21   πάντα, μηδένα αὐτῶν ἐγκαλεῖν μηδὲ ἐγκαλέσειν τῷ ἑτέρῳ μηδὲ ἐπελεύσεσθαι τρόπῳ μηδενὶ παρευρέσει μηδεμιᾷ. ὅ τι δʼ ἂν τῶν προγεγραμμένων παραβῇ τις τῶν ὁμολογούντων, ἀποτισάτω ὁ παραβὰς αὐτῶν τῷ ἐμμένωντι παραχρῆμα τὰ βλάβη διπλᾶ καὶ ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς τριακοσίας
r.22   καὶ εἰς τὸ δημόσιον τὰς ἴσας καὶ μηδὲν ἧσσον μενόντων τῶν διωμολογημένων καὶ
r.23   διῃρημένων πᾶν διὰ παντὸς κυρίων ἐπὶ τὸν ἀεὶ χρόνον καθʼ ὅ τι καί ἐστιν.
r.24   ὑπογραφεῖς τοῦ Ὡρίωνος Ὡρίων υἱὸς ὡς ἐτῶν πεντήκοντα πέντε οὐλὴ μ[ε]τώπῳ ἐκ δεξιῶν, τοῦ δʼ ἄλλου Ἀμμώνιος Πτολεμαίου ὡς ἐ[τῶν]
r.25   πεντήκοντα δύο , οὐλὴ μήλῳ δεξιῷ. ἡ διαίρεσις ἥδε κυρία ἔστω.
r.26   Ὡρίων Ὡρίωνος τοῦ Μενχήους ὁμολογῶ ἀνενηνοχέναι πρὸς
r.27   Ὧρον Ὥρου τοῦ Πετεύρεος τὴν δια[ί]ρεσιν τῶν προγεγραμμένων
r.28   μερῶν τῶν οἰκοπέδων καὶ κε[κ]λήρωμαι τὸ τέταρτον μέρος, καὶ
r.29   ὁ Ὧρος [κεκλήρωται] [τὸ] τρίτον τοῦ δωδεκάτου μέρους, ὅ ἐστιν τριακόσ[θ]εκτον μέρος ὧν ἐστιν αὐτοῦ ἄλλο τριακόσ[θ]εκτον μέρος καὶ αὐτοῦ
r.30   καὶ τοῦ α[ὐ]τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ αὐτοῦ ἄλλο δωδέκ[ατ]ον μέρος καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι τοῖς προκειμένοις. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Ὡρίων υἱὸς διὰ
r.31   τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα. Ὧρος Ὥρου τοῦ Πετεύρεος ὁ[μ]ολογῶ
r.32   συνανενηνοχέναι τὴν διαίρεσιν τῶν μερῶν τῶν οἰκοπέδω[ν] καὶ κεκλήρωμαι τὸ τρίτον
r.33   τοῦ δωδεκάτου μέρους, ὅ ἐστιν τριακόσθεκτον μέρος, ὧν ἐστίν μου ἄλλο
r.34   τριακόσθεκτον μέρος καὶ ἐμοῦ καὶ τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ μου ἄλλο πατρικὸν δωδέκατον
r.35   μέρος, καὶ εὐδοκῶ πᾶσι τοῖς προκειμένοις. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Ἀμμώνιος τοῦ Πτολεμαίου
r.36   μὴ εἰδότος γράμματα. ἔτους ζ Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Οὐεσπασιανοῦ Σεβασ[τ]οῦ μηνὸς
r.37   Καισαρείου ἐπαγομένων β, ἀναγέγραπται διὰ τοῦ πρὸς τῷ γραφείῳ Βακχιάδος καὶ Ἡφαιστιάδος.
r.38   ὁμολογία ἀλλήλων Ὥρου καὶ Ὡρίωνος διαιρέσεως.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the seventh year of Imperator Caesar Vespasian Augustus, in the month Kaisareios, on the
2     second of the intercalary days, in Bakchias of the division of Herakleides of the Arsinoite nome. There acknowledge
3     to one another Horion son of Horion son of Mencheus, about seventy years old, with a scar in the middle of his forehead, and Horos son of Horos
4     son of Peteuris, about forty-two years old, with a scar at the bend of his right hand, the two of them, that they have divided between themselves, from
5     the present day for all time, the shares belonging to them of paternal building-sites
6     and courtyards, which are a fourth share and a third of a twelfth share, that is, a three-hundred-and-sixth
7     share, held in common and undivided, in three sealed (plots), in the aforementioned village of Bakchias,
8     in the so-called North quarter, the neighbours of all of which are shown in the deeds concerning them; and that from the division by lot which they have made between themselves of their own consent, by mutual goodwill, Horion has obtained as the share falling to him the aforementioned fourth share
9     of the building-sites and courtyards, held in common and undivided, while Horos has obtained for himself
10    as the share falling to him too the aforementioned third of the twelfth share,
11    that is, a three-hundred-and-sixth share, of the same building-sites and courtyards, held in common and undivided,
12    of which there belongs to this same Horos the other three-hundred-and-sixth share of the same building-sites and courtyards,
13    and to this same Horos and his own brother, as those named declare, another paternal twelfth share of the same building-sites and courtyards, so that the whole belonging to Horos
14    alone is an eighteenth and twenty-fourth share of the same building-sites and
15    courtyards. Let the acknowledging parties therefore abide, both each of them and those with them, by
16    all that is set out in this present division, and let it not be permitted to them
17    nor to those with them to annul any of these divided matters, but rather let each of them
18    and those with them who succeed to them have lordship and ownership of what each
19    of them has been allotted as set out above, and let each of them use it in whatever
20    way they wish without hindrance. And concerning all the aforesaid and divided
21    matters, let none of them bring or shall bring any charge against the other, nor proceed against him in any way on any pretext whatever. And whichever of the acknowledging parties transgresses any of the aforesaid, let the transgressor pay to the one abiding, forthwith, the damages double and as a fine three hundred drachmas of silver
22    and to the treasury an equal sum, and none the less let the agreed and
23    divided matters remain wholly valid in every respect forever, in accordance with whatever they are.
24    Subscribers: of Horion, Horion his son, about fifty-five years old, with a scar on the right side of his forehead; and of the other, Ammonios son of Ptolemaios, about
25    fifty-two years old, with a scar on his right cheek. Let this division be valid.
26    I, Horion son of Horion son of Mencheus, acknowledge that I have submitted to
27    Horos son of Horos son of Peteuris the division of the aforementioned
28    shares of the building-sites, and I have been allotted the fourth share, and
29    Horos has been allotted the third of the twelfth share, that is, a three-hundred-and-sixth share, of which there is his own other three-hundred-and-sixth share, and of him
30    and his own brother another twelfth share, and I consent to all that is set out above. Horion his son wrote on his behalf because
31    he does not know letters. I, Horos son of Horos son of Peteuris, acknowledge
32    that I have jointly submitted the division of the shares of the building-sites, and I have been allotted the third
33    of the twelfth share, that is, a three-hundred-and-sixth share, of which there is my own other
34    three-hundred-and-sixth share, and of me and my brother another paternal twelfth
35    share, and I consent to all that is set out above. Ammonios son of Ptolemaios wrote on his behalf,
36    he not knowing letters. The 7th year of Imperator Caesar Vespasian Augustus, in the month
37    Kaisareios, 2 of the intercalary days, registered through the office at the records-office of Bakchias and Hephaistias.
38    Acknowledgement of one another, of Horos and Horion, of division.
