[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.332dupl
label:    P.Mich. 5.332dupl
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     47 CE – 48 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (47 CE – 48 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Hypothek
tm:       12141
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;332dupl
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Ὀρσεῦς Ὀρσεῦτος ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι Κρονίωνι Λαβήσεως κατὰ
r.2    τήνδε τὴν ὁμολογίαν ταύτην ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον τέταρτον μέρος κοινὸν καὶ ἀδιαίρετον τῆς ὑπαρχούσης
r.3    μοι οἰκίας τριστέγου καινῆς καὶ τῶν συγκυρόντων πάντων ἐν Τεβτύνει· ὧν γείτονες τῆς ὅλης οἰκίας νότου υἱῶν Πανῶτος οἰκία καὶ αὐλὴ καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος Χράτου τοῦ Ἱππάλου οἰκία, βορρᾶ υἱῶν Ἁτρῆτος
r.4    καὶ υἱῶν Ἡρακλείτου τοῦ Μάρωνος καὶ Ὀρσεῦτος πρεσβυ[τέ]ρου Παώπιος
r.5    εἴσοδος καὶ ἔξοδος, λιβὸς τοῦ υἱοῦ ἡμῶν Ὀρσεῦτος καὶ Ἀρείου τοῦ Πατύνεως αὐλή, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική. καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Κρονίωνος τὴν συνκεχωρημένην τιμ[ὴ]ν πᾶσαν ἐκ πλήρους παραχρῆμα διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ [οἴ]κου, καὶ βεβαιώσω πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι μηνὸς Φαρμοῦθι [καὶ] αὐτοῦ τοῦ μηνὸς Φαρμοῦθι τοῦ εἰσιόντος ἐνάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου
r.6    Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Α[ὐτοκ]ράτορος, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ
r.7    πάσης ἐνποιήσεως ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα [χρόν]ον. εὐδοκεῖ δὲ ἡ γυνή μου Τααρμιῦσις Πατύνεω[ς τῇ ὁμολογίᾳ ταύτῃ καὶ] μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι μηδʼ ἐγκαλέσειν [μηδʼ ἄλλον ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Σαραπίων Πτο]λε[μαίου] διὰ τὸ μὴ [εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα].
r.8    Ὀρσεῦς Ὀρσεῦτος Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς καὶ ἡ γυνή
r.9    μου Τααρμιῦσις Πατύνεως μετὰ κυρίου ἐμοῦ, οἱ
r.10   δύο ἀλλήλων ἔγγυοι εἰς ἔκτισιν, ἔχομεν τὸ
r.11   δάνειον παρὰ Κρονίωνος τοῦ Λαβήσεως τὰς
r.12   τοῦ ἀργυρίου ἐπισήμου κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς ἑκατὸν
r.13   τριάκοντα δύο , τόκου ὡς ἐκ δραχμῆς μιᾶς τῆι
r.14   μνᾷ τὸν μῆνα ἕκαστον, ἃς καὶ ἀποδώσω ἐν μηνὶ Φαρμοῦθι τοῦ εἰσιόντος ἐνάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου
r.15   Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ
r.16   Αὐτοκράτορος καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Σαραπίων Πτολεμαίου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς
r.17   γράμματα.
r.18   ὑποθήκη Ὀρσεῦτος πρὸς
r.19   Κρωνείωνα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     I, Orseus son of Orseus, acknowledge that I have sold to Kronion son of Labesis according to
2     this same agreement, from the present day for all time, a fourth share, common and undivided, of the
3     three-storey new house belonging to me and all the appurtenances in Tebtynis; of which the neighbours of the whole house are, on the south the house and courtyard of the sons of Panos and as to some part the house of Chratos son of Hippalos, on the north of the sons of Hatres
4     and of the sons of Herakleitos son of Maron and of Orseus the elder son of Paopis
5     an entrance and exit, on the west the courtyard of our son Orseus and of Areios son of Patynis, on the east a royal street. And I have received from Kronion the whole agreed price in full forthwith through hand from house, and I will guarantee with every guarantee, from public (claims) of the earlier times up to the month Pharmouthi [and] of the month Pharmouthi itself of the coming ninth year of Tiberius Claudius
6     Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, and from private claims and
7     every imposition for all time. And my wife Taarmiysis daughter of Patynis consents [to this agreement and] will not proceed against it nor make claim [nor anyone on her behalf as stated above. There wrote on their behalf Sarapion son of Pto]lemaios because they do not [know letters].
8     I, Orseus son of Orseus, a Persian of the epigone, and my wife
9     Taarmiysis daughter of Patynis with me as guardian, the
10    two of us mutual sureties for one another for the payment, we have
11    the loan from Kronion son of Labesis, the
12    of stamped silver, capital, one hundred
13    thirty-two drachmas, at interest of one drachma per
14    mina each month, which I shall also repay in the month Pharmouthi of the coming ninth year of Tiberius
15    Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
16    Imperator as stated above. There wrote on their behalf Sarapion son of Ptolemaios because they do not know
17    letters.
18    Mortgage of Orseus against
19    Kronion.
