[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.352
label:    P.Mich. 5.352
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     46 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (46 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verzicht — Anspruch — Besitz
tm:       12162
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;352
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    [ϛ] ἔτους Κλαυδ[ί]ου. ἐκδόσ[ιμον] … λ.
r.2    Θενμενχῆς καὶ Θαῆσις αἱ δύο Ἀκήους μετὰ κυρίων ἑκατέρων τῆς μὲν Θενμενχῆτος τοῦ αὐτῆς υἱοῦ Ὥρου τοῦ Ἁρμιύσιος καὶ τῆς Θαήσιος τοῦ ἀνδρὸς Ὀννώφριος τοῦ Νεφερῶτος ὁμολογοῦμεν
r.3    ἐξίστασθαι τῇ προγεγραμμένῃ ἡμῶν ὁμοπατρίῳ καὶ ὁμομητρίῳ ἀδελφῇ Σοήρει περὶ τῶν
r.4    προσενηνεγμένων αὐτῇ ὑπὸ τῆς μητρὸς ἡμῶν τῶν τριῶν Σοήρεως τῆς Πατύνιος ἔτι περιούσης οἰκοπέδων αὐτῆς Σοήρεως πάντων ἐν Τεβτύνει καὶ ἐπιπλόων καὶ ἐνδομενείας καὶ ἐνοφειλομένων διʼ ἧς ἔθου πρὸς τὸν ἄνδρα σου Εὔτυχον Σωτηρίχου συγγραφῆς τροφίτιδος τῷ ἐνεστῶτι ἕκτῳ ἔτει Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ
r.5    Αὐτοκράτορος μηνὶ Νέῳ Σεβαστῷ ἕκτῃ διὰ τοῦ αὐτοῦ γραφείου, καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι μηδὲ τοὺς
r.6    παρʼ ἡμῶν ἐπὶ τὴν προγεγραμμένην Σοῆριν μηδʼ ἐπὶ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτῆς περὶ τούτων μηδὲ περὶ ἄλλου μηδενὸς ἁπλῶς πράγματος ἐνγράπτου μηδὲ ἀγράπτου διὰ τὸ ἐκπεπεῖσθαι ἡμᾶς ὑπὸ τῆς Σοήρεως ἀργυρικῷ διαπείσματι, κατὰ μηθὲν δὲ τοῦ προγεγραμμένου καὶ
r.7    ἐπιγραψαμένου τῆς Σοήρεως ἀνδρὸς κυρίου Εὐτύχου τοῦ Σωτηρίχου [ἐλαττουμένου] ὑπὲρ ὧν ὀφείλει αὐτῷ ὁ προγεγραμμένος Ὧρος σὺν τῇ αὐτοῦ γυναικὶ καθʼ ὁμολογίαν παραθέσεως καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Διονύσιος Μάρωνος διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     The 6th year of Claudius. To be issued … 30.
2     Thenmenches and Thaesis, the two daughters of Akeous, each with her guardian — Thenmenches with her own son Horos son of Harmiysis, and Thaesis with her husband Onnophris son of Nepheros — we acknowledge
3     that we withdraw in favor of our aforementioned sister by the same father and the same mother, Soeris, concerning the
4     properties conveyed to her by our mother of the three of us, Soeris daughter of Patynis, while she was still living — all the building-plots of Soeris herself in Tebtynis, and the furnishings and the household goods and the debts owed — through the deed of maintenance which you made with your husband Eutychos son of Soterichos in the present sixth year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
5     Imperator, in the month Neos Sebastos, on the sixth, through the same record-office; and that neither we
6     nor those acting for us shall proceed against the aforementioned Soeris nor against those acting for her concerning these matters nor concerning any other thing whatsoever, written or unwritten, because we have been bought off by Soeris with a money-payment of persuasion; and in no respect to the detriment of the aforementioned and
7     subscribed husband and guardian of Soeris, Eutychos son of Soterichos, regarding what the aforementioned Horos together with his wife owes him according to the agreement of deposit, as is set forth above. Dionysios son of Maron wrote for them because they do not know letters.
