[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.328
label:    P.Mich. 5.328
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     29 CE – 30 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (29 CE – 30 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Darlehen — Hypothek
tm:       15160
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;328
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Ὀρσεῦς Κολλούθου ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι τῷ ὁμοπατρίῳ καὶ ὁμομητρίῳ μου ἀδελφῷ Ὀρσεῦτι πρεσβυτέρῳ Κολλούθου μητρὸς Τερεῦτος τὴ[ν] ὑπάρχουσάν μοι οἰκίαν τρίστεγον καὶ αὐλὴν καὶ τὰ συγκύροντα πάντα ἐν Τ[α]λεί, ὧν γείτονες τῆς οἰκίας καὶ αὐλῆς νότου Νεστνήφιος οἰκία, βορ[ρ]ᾶ ῥύμη βασιλική, λιβὸς τοῦ αὐτοῦ Νεστνήφιος οἰκία, ἀπηλιώτου Πελεμάσιος ο[ἰ]κία· καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Ὀρσεῦτος τὴν συν[κεχωρη]μένην τιμὴν πᾶσαν ἐκ πλήρους διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ βεβαιώσω τὴν πρᾶσιν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει. εὐδοκεῖ δὲ
r.2    ὁ υἱός μου Κολλοῦθος τῇ πρά[σ]ει ταύτῃ καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι
r.3    ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον μηδὲ ἐνκαλέσειν καθὼς πρόκ[ει]ται.
r.4    ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Πατυνίων Ἡρακλήους διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα.
r.5    Ὀρσεῦς Κολλούθου καὶ ὁ υἱός μου Κολλοῦθος,
r.6    οἱ δύο Πέρσαι τῆς ἐπιγονῆς, ἀλλήλων ἐγγυηταὶ
r.7    εἰς ἔκτισιν, ἔχομεν τὸ δάνειον παρὰ Ὀρσεῦτος
r.8    πρεσβυτέρου Κολλούθου τὰς τοῦ ἀργυρίου ἐπισήμου
r.9    κεφαλαίου δραχμὰς τετρακοσίας εἴκοσι , τόκου
r.10   ὡς ἐκ δραχμῆς μιᾶς τῇ μνᾷ τὸν μῆνα ἕκαστον, ἃς καὶ ἀποδώσομεν ἐν μηνὶ Νέου Σεβαστοῦ τοῦ
r.11   εἰσιόντος ἑπτακαιδεκάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος
r.12   Σεβαστοῦ καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν
r.13   Πατυνίων Ἡρακλήους διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα.
r.14   ιϛ ἔτους οἰκονομία Κολλούθου Ταλίτου προς τὸν προστάτην Ματρήου
r.15   φύλαξον αὐτὴν ἕως Μεχὶρ ἵνα λάβῃς παρὰ τοῦ καταγεγραμμένου.
r.16   ε …

[TRANSLATION]
1     Orseus son of Kollouthos, I acknowledge that I have sold to my brother by the same father and same mother, Orseus the elder son of Kollouthos, his mother being Tereus, the three-storey house belonging to me and a courtyard and all that goes with them in Talei, of which the neighbours of the house and courtyard are: on the south the house of Nestnephis, on the north a royal street, on the west the house of the same Nestnephis, on the east the house of Pelemasis; and I have received from Orseus the whole agreed price in full, hand to hand, out of the house, and I will guarantee the sale with every guarantee. And there consents
2     my son Kollouthos to this sale and (agrees) not to come against it
3     for all time nor to make claim, as is set forth.
4     Patynion son of Herakleos wrote on their behalf because they do not know letters.
5     Orseus son of Kollouthos and my son Kollouthos,
6     the two Persians of the epigone, sureties for one another
7     for payment, we have the loan from Orseus
8     the elder son of Kollouthos, of stamped silver,
9     as capital four hundred twenty drachmas, at interest
10    of one drachma per mina each month, which we will also repay in the month of Neos Sebastos of the
11    incoming seventeenth year of Tiberius Caesar
12    Augustus, as is set forth. There wrote on their behalf
13    Patynion son of Herakleos because they do not know letters.
14    Year 16, contract of Kollouthos of Talei against the president Matreas.
15    Keep it until Mecheir, so that you may receive (it) from the one registered.
16    e …
