[META]
id:       P.Mich. 1.57
label:    P.Mich. 1.57
name:     Letter — Arsinoites
genre:    letters
date:     248 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Arsinoites (248 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Lysanias an Theophilos — Gerichtsfall
tm:       1957
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;1;57
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Λυσανίας Θεοφίλωι χαίρειν. οἶμαι μέν σε οὐκ ἀγνοεῖν τὴν ἡμετέραν φιλοτιμίαν καὶ προθυμίαν εἰς σέ, καὶ ἐξ ἀρχῆς δὲ
r.2    ὥς σου προέστημεν, ἰδόντες δέ σε ὑπὸ Δημέου συκοφαντούμενον καὶ ὃν τρόπον ὑπὸ τῶν περὶ τὸ συνέργιον
r.3    συνεργούμενον εἰς τὸ κατακρῖναί σου ἀδίκως, καὶ Ἀλκέτου δὲ τοῦ ἀδελφοῦ σε ἐγγυησαμένου ἐνοχληθέντος αὐτοῦ τε καὶ τῶν φίλων κατὰ σύμβολον παρέξεσθαι εἰς κρίσιν ἐν ἡμέραις πέντε ἢ ἀποτίσειν
r.4    τὸ ἐπικαλούμενον, σὺ δὲ οὕτως ὠλιγοψύχησας ὥστε καὶ ἐκχωρῆσαι ἄνευ ἡμῶν, πότερον, εἰ καὶ ὣς ἠβούλου καταπλεῖν, οὐκ ἂν καὶ ἐφοδιάσαντές σε καὶ συμβούλους αδ … ερεσοπηκτας ἔχοντα ἐπὶ τοὺς ἀντιδίκους καὶ τοὺς
r.5    περὶ τὸ συνέργιον ἀναπλεῖν· ἐδώκαμεν γὰρ ἄν σοι ὑποθέσεις διʼ ὧν οἱ ἀντίδικοι ἂν οἴμωζον. ἔτι οὖν καὶ νῦν
r.6    εἰ μὲν δύνῃ αὐτὸς ἀπὸ σαυτοῦ ἀπομεριμνήσας ἐντυχεῖν· οὐ γὰρ ἐπιτήδειον ἦν ἡμᾶς γράφειν, ἀκηκόαμεν δὲ
r.7    καὶ δυνατόν σε πορίσαι προστάγματα εἰς τ[ὸ] τιμωρηθῆναι αὐτούς. γίνωσκε οὖν ἐντυχόντος Δημέου Φανίαι κατὰ
r.8    Ἀλκέτου ὅτι ἐγδεξάμενος Θεόφιλον κατὰ σύμβολον παρέξεσθαι κρινόμενον οὐ παρέχεται καὶ Φανίου γεγραφότος Ἐπηράτωι
r.9    κατασχεῖν τὰ γενήματα Ἀλκέτου ἕως ἂν παραγενόμενος ἐπὶ τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ διακούσηι. σὺ οὖν πειρῶ πρὸ τοῦ
r.10   Φανίαν ἀναπλεῦσαι αὐτὸς φθάσαι καὶ προαναπλεύσας. εἰ δὲ μή, οὐ παρόντος σου κατακριθήσεται καὶ κινδυνεύσει ἀποτῖσαι Ἀλκέτας τὰς τ δραχμὰς. ἀλλʼ εἰ μὲν δυνατὸν πρόσταγμα λαβεῖν, εἰ δὲ μή, αὐτὸς ἀνάπλευσον, ἵνα σύ τε καὶ Ἀλκέτας ἀπολυθῆτε καὶ μὴ συμπέσῃ μὴ παρεχομένου σε ἐπὶ τῆς κρίσεως ἀποτίνειν τὸν Ἀλκέταν τὸ ἐπικαλούμενον, ὃ ἄνω σοι ὑπογέγραπται. καλῶς ἂν ποιήσαις παραγενόμενος ἐν τάχει.
r.11   ἔρρωσο. ἔτους λη, Παχὼς ιδ.
r.12   Θεοφίλωι. τῶι παρὰ Ἐπιστράτου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Lysanias to Theophilos, greeting. I think indeed that you are not unaware of our zeal and eagerness toward you, and (that) from the beginning too
2     we championed you, and seeing you being slanderously prosecuted by Demeas, and in what way you were being conspired against by those in the workshop-guild
3     so as to have you condemned unjustly; and Alketas your brother having gone surety for you — he himself and his friends being pressed, in accordance with the bond, to produce (you) for judgement within five days or to pay
4     the sum claimed — yet you so lost heart as even to withdraw without us. Whether, even if you wished to sail down (river) anyway, would we not also have provisioned you and given you advisers and supporters ready against your opponents and those
5     in the workshop-guild, (so that you could) sail up? For we would have given you arguments through which your opponents would have wailed. Even now, therefore,
6     if you are able by yourself, having freed yourself from anxiety, to make petition — for it was not fitting that we should write — and we have heard
7     that you are able to procure orders for them to be punished. Know therefore that, Demeas having petitioned Phanias against
8     Alketas, (saying) that, having undertaken to produce Theophilos for judgement in accordance with the bond, he does not produce (him); and Phanias having written to Eperatos
9     to detain the produce of Alketas until, coming in person at the audit, he should hear the case. You therefore, before
10    Phanias sails up, try yourself to get there first; and having sailed up beforehand. But if not, you not being present, Alketas will be condemned and will be in danger of having to pay the 300 drachmas. But if it is possible to obtain an order, (do so); but if not, sail up yourself, so that both you and Alketas may be released, and it may not happen that, you not producing (yourself) at the trial, Alketas pays the sum claimed, which has been written above for you. You would do well to come quickly.
11    Farewell. Year 38, Pachons 14.
12    To Theophilos. From Epistratos' (office).
