[META]
id:       P.Mich. 11.624
label:    P.Mich. 11.624
name:     Letter — unbekannt
genre:    letters
date:     501 CE – 525 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from unbekannt (501 CE – 525 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Theodoros an Kyrillos — Geschäfte — Aufträge — Zahlungen — Grastransport — libellus — Berichte
tm:       37323
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;11;624
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    τῷ δεσπότῃ μου τιμιωτάτῳ ἀδελφῷ Κυρίλλῳ
r.2    Θεόδωρος
r.3    τὸ ὑπόμνημα τοῦ βοηθο[ῦ ] … λιανοῦ τοῦ πολιτευομένου ἀπέστειλα σοι
r.4    … μπ … ο … δ[ιὰ] Εὐδαίμονος τοῦ ἑταίρου ἡμῶν· ὅπερ δεξάμενος
r.5    κατὰ λόγον τοὺς μισθοὺς ὑπό[δε]ξαι παρʼ αὐτοῦ καὶ τὰ βοηθητικά, παρασχόμενος
r.6    τὸ ἥμισυ τοῦ παρεχομένου τῇ μητρὶ Ἡρακλάμμωνος· οἶδας γὰρ ὅτι καὶ αὐτὴ
r.7    χρείαν ἔχει. καὶ ἐὰν ῥᾷον ἔχῃς ἐνκατάλαβε ἡμᾶς· πάνυ γὰρ ἐπιζητεῖ πάντας
r.8    ὁ κύριός μου ὁ ἄρχων. καὶ μετάδος τοῖς κυρίοις μου ἀδελφοῖς Ἀντιόχῳ καὶ
r.9    Θέωνι τοῖς παγάρχοις ὡς παραυτὰ μηδὲν μελλήσας ὑπέβαλα τὴν ἀναφορὰν
r.10   αὐτῶν, τοῦ κυρίου μου τοῦ ἀβάκτης μὴ ὄντος ἐπὶ τῆς Ἡρακλεοπολιτῶν ἀλλʼ ἐπὶ
r.11   τῆς Ἀρσινοειτῶν, καὶ γράμματα περὶ τούτου πρὸς τοὺς πολιτευομένους κατέ[π]εμψα διὰ τοῦ αὐτοῦ Εὐδαίμονος προφάσει τῆς ἀνεγέρσεως τῶν κιόνων
r.12   τῆς βασιλικῆς. καταξίωσον δὲ ἔτι ἐπὶ τῆς πόλεως τυγχάνοντος ποιῆσαι ὅλον
r.13   τὸν χόρτον κοβαλευθῆναι, ὑπομνήσας τοὺς αὐτούς, τουτέστιν Ἀντίοχον καὶ Θέωνα,
r.14   τὰ κτήνη αὐτῶν παρασχεῖν πρὸς μετ[α]φορὰν τούτων καθὼς καὶ ἐπηγγείλατο.
r.15   ἤδη δὲ καὶ τὸν λίβελλον τοῦ κυρίου μου ἀδελφοῦ Διδύμου ἀποστείλα[ς], τὰς δὲ ἀναφορὰς
r.16   τοῦ δεσπότου μου τῆς ψυχῆς Ἰσιδώρου δεξάμενος παρὰ τοῦ κυρίου μου
r.17   [ἀ]δελφοῦ Σαραπίωνος τοῦτο γάρ μοι μεταδέδωκεν ποιῶ πραχθῆναι
r.18   ἐρρῶσθαί σε εὔχομαι
r.19   πολλοῖς χρόνοις,
r.20   κύριε ἄδελφε.
r.21   … ν μοι ὡς ατα … οναπερι …
r.22   … σαν … ευ … ρακατα …
r.23   Ἁράμμωνα τὸν κονδούκτορα ἀπαίτησον τὰ ὁλοκόττινα ἡ γὰρ χρεία αὐτῶν
r.24   πάνυ κατεπείγει ἐάσας παρὰ τῇ μητρὶ Ἡρακλάμμωνος ὃ βούλεται· Ἀνδρέας γὰρ ὁ
r.25   νουμεράριος ἀπήντησεν καὶ μέλλει σοι ὀχλῆσαι διʼ ὃ οἶδας. πάντων δὲ τῶν ὀφφικιαλίων
r.26   ἀναπεμφθέντων ἐποίησα Ζωίλον κουφισθῆναι ὡς αὐτοῦ κακουμένου. καὶ ἀνακείμενος
r.27   τὰς ἀναφορὰς παρεσχόμην τῷ κυρίῳ μου τῷ ἄρχοντι. καὶ ἤδη ὡς προεῖπον
r.28   πράττονται. παρήγγειλα δὲ καὶ τῷ κυρίῳ μου Τιμαγένει πάντας ἀναπέμψιν καὶ τουταυτοῦν αὐτῷ
r.29   ὁ κύριός μου ὁ σχολαστικός.
r.30   τῷ δεσπότῃ μου πάντων τιμιωτάτῳ ἀδελφῷ Κυρίλλῳ ἐξκέπτορι Θεόδωρος

[TRANSLATION]
1     To my master, the most honored brother Kyrillos,
2     Theodoros.
3     The memorandum of the assistant …lianos the senator I have sent to you
4     …mp…o…through Eudaimon our companion; and having received it,
5     receive from him according to the account the wages and the auxiliary funds, providing
6     half of what is provided to the mother of Heraklammon; for you know that she too
7     has need. And if you are more at ease, take note of us; for my lord the magistrate
8     is very much seeking out everyone. And pass word to my lords the brothers Antiochos and
9     Theon the pagarchs that, as straightaway, delaying nothing, I submitted their
10    report — my lord the abactis (registrar) not being in the Herakleopolite (nome) but in
11    the Arsinoite — and I sent down letters about this matter to the senators through the same Eudaimon, on the pretext of the raising of the columns
12    of the basilica. And deign further, while he is still in the city, to have all
13    the hay carried off, reminding the same men, that is, Antiochos and Theon,
14    to provide their animals for the transport of these things, just as he also promised.
15    And having already sent off the petition of my lord brother Didymos, and having received the reports
16    of my master Isidoros, dear as my soul, from my lord
17    brother Sarapion — for he has communicated this to me — I am having it carried out.
18    I pray for your health
19    for many years,
20    my lord brother.
21    …n to me as ata…onaperi…
22    …san…eu…rakata…
23    Demand of Harammon the contractor the solidi; for the need of them
24    very urgently presses, leaving with the mother of Heraklammon what she wishes; for Andreas the
25    numerarius has arrived and is going to trouble you on account of what you know. And, all the officials
26    having been sent up, I had Zoilos relieved, since he was being ill-treated. And being detained,
27    I provided the reports to my lord the magistrate. And already, as I said before,
28    they are being carried out. And I instructed my lord Timagenes too to send all up, and the same to him
29    my lord the scholasticus.
30    To my master, most honored of all, the brother Kyrillos, the exceptor, Theodoros.
