[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.355dupl
label:    P.Mich. 5.355dupl
name:     Contract — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     48 CE – 56 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (48 CE – 56 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Arbeit — Weber — Lohn — Steuern — Gewerbe
tm:       12166
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;355dupl
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἁρμιῦσις Πετεσούχου Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ὁμολογῶ παρέξεσθαι ἐμαυτὸν
r.2    ἐπʼ ἔτη δύο ἀπὸ τοῦ προκιμένου χρόνου διατρίβοντα καὶ ποιοῦντα πάντα
r.3    τὰ ἐπιτασσόμενα καὶ ὑφαίνοντα οὗ ἐὰν βούληται ὁ προγεγραμμένος Ἥρων Ἁρυώτου καθʼ ἡμέραν ἕκαστον ἀνθʼ ὧν καὶ αὐτὸς ὁ Ἥρων διαγράψει ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ἐπὶ τὸν προκίμενον χρόνον κατʼ ἔτος τὴν ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ἐπὶ κώμης Τεβτύνεως λαικὴν σύνταξιν καὶ γερδιακὸν τὸ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ τέλεσμα καὶ δαπάνη[ν]
r.4    καὶ ἐπιτρίτου καὶ χωματείας ἔργου καὶ βαλανευτικοῦ τέλεσμα καὶ κρήνης καὶ
r.5    εἰς λόγον μετρήματος ἐπὶ τὸν αὐτὸν προκίμενον χρόνον κατὰ μῆνα ἕκαστον
r.6    πυροῦ ἀρτάβην μίαν μέτρῳ τετραχοινίκωι Τεβτύνεως καὶ εἰς λόγον ἱματισμοῦ καὶ ἐλαίου κατʼ ἔτος ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς εἴκοσι ὀκτώ , οὐ γινόμενος δὲ ἀφήμερος
r.7    ἀπὸ τῶν τοῦ Ἥρωνος ἀλλὰ καὶ συνακολουθῶν αὐτῶι κατὰ τὸν νόμον πανταχῆι.
r.8    ἧς δὲ ἡμέρας ἐὰν μὴ παραμείνω ἐκτείσω τῷ Ἥρωνι ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς δύο ,
r.9    καὶ ἕκαστα ποιήσω καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ Σαραπίων Πτολεμαίου
r.10   διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα. Ἥρων Ἁρυώτου γέγονε εἴς με ἡ ὁμολογία καθὼς πρόκιται.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Harmyisis, son of Petesouchos, a Persian of the epigone, I acknowledge that I will furnish myself
2     for two years from the aforementioned time, remaining and doing all
3     the things commanded and weaving wherever the aforementioned Heron of Haryotes wishes, each day. In return, Heron himself will write off for me over the aforementioned time per year the laïc salary for me at the village of Tebtynis and the dyer's tax for me and expen[se]
4     and one-third [tax] and dike-work and bathing tax and fountain and
5     as reckoning for grain-measure over the same aforementioned time each month
6     one artaba of wheat measured by the four-choinix measure of Tebtynis, and as reckoning for clothing and oil per year twenty-eight drachmas of silver, [and] I will not be absent
7     from Heron's [service], but also following him everywhere according to the law.
8     And if I should not remain any day, I will pay Heron two drachmas of silver,
9     and I will do everything as is set forth. Sarapion of Ptolemy wrote on his behalf
10    because he does not know [how to] write. Heron of Haryotes, the agreement has been made to me as is set forth.