[META]
id:       P.Mich. 3.174
label:    P.Mich. 3.174
name:     Contract — Arsinoites, Ägypten
genre:    contracts
date:     144 CE – 147 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites, Ägypten
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites, Ägypten (144 CE – 147 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe an den Präfekten — Beschwerde eines Pächters — Vertreibung von Pachtgrund — Erpressung — Bearbeitungsvermerke
tm:       11980
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;3;174
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Λουκίωι Οὐαλερίωι Πρόκλωι ἐπάρχωι Αἰγύπτου
r.2    παρὰ Πτολ[ε]μαίου Διοδώρου τοῦ καὶ Διοσκόρου τῶν ἀπὸ τοῦ Ἀρσινοείτου νομοῦ. τῆς
r.3    ἐμφύτου σ[ο]υ, ἡγεμὼν κύριε, εὐεργεσίας εἰς πάντας φθανούσης καὶ αὐτὸς τυχεῖν δέομαι.
r.4    εἶδός τί ἐστιν ἐν τῷ νομῷ ἐν ἀριθμῷ ἀνδρῶν οἳ καλοῦνται ναυτοκολυμβηταί,
r.5    οὗτοι δημ[ό]σιοι ὄντες καὶ τῇ τῶν ὑδάτων διοικήσει ὑπηρετοῦντες προσμένοντές τε
r.6    τοῖς κατ[ὰ] καιρὸν αἰγιαλοφύλαξι καὶ κατασπορεῦσι, διὸ καὶ ἀφίονται παντὸς ἐπικεφαλαίου
r.7    καὶ πάσης λειτουργίας ἔτι δὲ καὶ ἐκ τοῦ δημοσίου σιτοῦνται καθʼ ὃ οὐκ ἐξὸν αὐτοῖς καθόλου ἑτ[έ]ρᾳ τινὶ πραγματείᾳ παρενχειρεῖν. τούτων εἷς τις Ἰσίδωρος Μαρεῖ ἀνὴρ
r.8    πάνυ το[λ]μήεις καὶ αὐθάδης τῷ τρόπῳ διʼ ὑποβλήτων νοθεύων τὰς κυριακὰς μισθώσεις χάριν τοῦ διασεί[ει]ν καὶ ἀργυρίζεσθαι καθʼ ὃ καὶ ἀποδείξω ἐπὶ τοῦ ῥητοῦ
r.9    ἐπῆλθεν καὶ ἐμοὶ διʼ ἑνὸς τῶν ὑποβλήτων Ἀμμωνίου τινὸς ἐπικαλουμένου Καβοι
r.10   ἀνδρὸς ἐπιμέμπτου καὶ διὰ τὸ ἀκόσμως βιοῖν προγραφέντος τυγχάνοντι οὐσιακῷ
r.11   μισθωτῇ καὶ ἱκανοὺς φόρους διαγράφοντι εἰς τὸν κυριακὸν λόγον καὶ πρὸς τὴν
r.12   μίσθωσιν ἱκανὰ ὑπαλλάξαντι οὐκ ἐῶν προσευκαιρεῖν τῇ μισθώσει ἀλλὰ καὶ
r.13   τοῦ οἴκ[ου] ἐκκλείων καὶ ὕβρεις παρέχων μέχρι καὶ διέσεισέν με ἀργύριον. ὅθεν ἐπὶ
r.14   σὲ τὸν πάντων ἀντιλήμπτορα κατέφυγον καὶ ἀξιῶ ἐπειδὴ ἐπὶ τοῦ παρόντος
r.15   παρῃτήσω τὴν εἰς τὸν νομὸν εἴσοδον κελεῦσαι γραφῆναι τῷ τῆς Θεμίστου καὶ
r.16   Πολέμωνος στρατηγῷ διακοῦσαί μου πρὸς αὐτ[ὸ]ν διὰ τὸ τὰς ἀποδείξεις δύνασθαί με ἐπὶ τῶν τόπων παραστῆσαι ὑπὲρ τοῦ ὑβρίσθαι καὶ διασεσεῖσθαι ἵνα
r.17   δυνηθῶ ἐν τοῖς εὐτυχεστάτοις τοῦ μεγίστου Αὐτοκράτορος καιροῖς καὶ ἐν τῇ
r.18   ἐπαφρο[δ]ίτῳ σου ἡγεμονίᾳ ἀνεπηρεάστως ἐν τῇ ἰδίᾳ διαζῆν καὶ
r.19   ὦ βεβο[η]θημένος. διευτύχει.
r.20   Πτολεμα[ῖο]ς Διοδώρου ἐπιδέδωκα καθὼς πρόκιται.
r.21   ὁ στρατηγὸς τοῦ νομοῦ τὰ δέοντα
r.22   ποιήσει. ἀπόδος.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Lucius Valerius Proclus, prefect of Egypt,
2     from Ptolemaeus son of Diodorus also called Dioscorus, of those from the Arsinoite nome. Of
3     your inborn beneficence, my lord governor, which reaches all, I too ask to obtain a share.
4     There is a class in the nome, in the number of the men who are called diver-sailors;
5     these, being public servants and assisting in the management of the waters, and attending
6     upon the shore-guards and sowing-overseers from time to time—wherefore also they are exempt from all poll-tax
7     and from every liturgy, and moreover they are fed from the public funds, inasmuch as it is not at all permitted to them to engage in any other business. One of these, a certain Isidorus son of Mareis, a man
8     very reckless and arrogant in manner, falsifying the imperial leases through proxies for the sake of extortion and money-grubbing—as I shall also prove at the trial—
9     came against me too through one of his proxies, a certain Ammonius surnamed Kaboi,
10    a blameworthy man and, on account of his disorderly living, proscribed—against me who am an imperial-estate
11    lessee and who pay sufficient rents into the imperial account, and who toward the
12    lease have pledged sufficient (security)—not permitting (me) to attend to the lease, but also
13    shutting (me) out of the house and inflicting outrages, to the point that he even extorted money from me. Wherefore I have fled for refuge to
14    you, the protector of all, and I request, since for the present
15    you have declined entry into the nome, that you order it to be written to the strategos of the (divisions of) Themistes and
16    Polemon to hear me against him, since I am able to furnish the proofs on the spot concerning my having been outraged and extorted, so that
17    I may be able, in the most fortunate times of the greatest Emperor and under your
18    charming governorship, to live out my life unmolested in my own (place), and
19    be assisted. Farewell.
20    I, Ptolemaeus son of Diodorus, have submitted (it), as is aforesaid.
21    The strategos of the nome shall do what is
22    necessary. Deliver (it).
