[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.273dupl
label:    P.Mich. 5.273dupl
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     46 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (46 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Parachoresis — Land
tm:       12109
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;273dupl
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐκδόσιμον. μηνὸς Γερμ[α]νικήου Παχὼν κζ.
r.2    Μυσθᾶς Ἀκουσιλάου Μακεδὼν τῶν κατοίκων ὁμολογῶ παρακεχωρηκέναι Μαξίμωι Διοδώρου τοῦ καὶ Παποντῶτος ὥστε αὐτῷ Μαξίμῳ καὶ ἐνγόνοις αὐτοῦ καὶ τοῖς
r.3    παρʼ αὐτοῦ εἰς μετεπιγραφὴν ἀπὸ τῆς ἐνεστώσης ἡμέρας ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον τὸν ὑπάρχοντά μοι πατρικὸν κατοικικὸν κλῆρον ἀρούρας ἓξ καὶ πρὸς ταύταις ἐπιβολῆς
r.4    κώμης τέταρτον ἄρουραν πάσας ἢ ὅσαι ἐὰν ὦσι ἐν μιᾷ σφραγῖδι ἐν τῇ κοίληι
r.5    λεγομένηι Φρεγμήι· ὧν γείτονες νότου προσοδικὰ ἐδάφη ἀνὰ μέσον ὄντος ὑδραγωγοῦ, βορρᾶ Ψενοσίριος
r.6    τοῦ Φαμούνιος κλῆρος, λιβὸς Ἀμμωνίου τοῦ Ἀμμωνίου κλῆρος καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος Ἡρω[ν]ᾶτος κουρέως κλῆρος ἀνὰ μέσον ὄντος ὑδραγωγοῦ διʼ οὗ ποτίζεται ὁ κλῆρος, ἀπηλιώτου Ἥρωνος
r.7    τοῦ Ἡρακλίου κλῆρος ἀνὰ μέσον ὄντος ὑδραγωγοῦ εἰς ὃν ἐκχεῖται ὁ κλῆρος· ὑπὲρ ὧν καὶ ἐπιτελέσω τὰς καθηκούσας [οἰκονομίας] τῆς εἰς τὸν Μάξιμον μετεπιγραφῆς καὶ παραχωρήσεως διὰ τοῦ
r.8    κατοικικοῦ τῶν καταλοχισμῶν λογιστηρίου. καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Μαξίμου τὸ ἑσταμένον ἀργυρικὸν παραχωρητικὸν πᾶν κεφάλαιον παραχρῆμα διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ βεβαιώσω
r.9    τὰ κατὰ τὴν παραχώρησιν ταύτην πάσηι βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων ὀφειλημάτων καὶ ἐπιγραφῶν πασῶν καὶ ναυβίων καὶ ἀρταβίας καὶ ἀρ[ι]θμητικοῦ καὶ τιμῆς γῆς καὶ προστίμου καὶ τῶν ἄλλων πάντων τῶν ἀπαιτουμένων τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἕκτου ἔτους καὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἕκτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου
r.10   Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐνποιήσεως ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον καὶ ἕκαστα ποιήσω καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ
r.11   Μάρων Χρησίμου διὰ τὸ βραδύτερον αὐτὸν γράφειν. Μυσθᾶς Ἀκουσιλάου παρακεχώρηκα καὶ ἀπέχω τὸ ἀργυρικὸν κεφάλαιον
r.12   καὶ βεβαιώσω καὶ ἐπιτέταχα γράφειν καθὼς πρόκιται. Μάξιμος Διο[δ]ώρου τοῦ καὶ Παποντο͂τος γέγονε εἴς με
r.13   ἡ παραχώρησις καθὼς πρόκιται. [ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ] Ἀπολλώνιος Λυσιμάχου διὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτὸν γράμματα.
r.14   Μυσθᾶς ὡς ἐτῶν … οὐλὴ πήχει ἀρι[στερ]ῷ. Μάξιμος ὡς ἐτῶν κε οὐλὴ μεσόφρυσι δυσί .
r.15   Μάρων Χρησίμου ὡς ἐτῶν λ οὐλὴ πήχει δ[εξιῷ].
r.16   ὑπογραφεὺς Ἀπολλώνιος ὡς ἐτῶν κε οὐλὴ καρπῷ ἀριστερῷ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Copy issued. In the month Germanikeios, Pachon 27.
2     I, Mysthas son of Akousilaos, Macedonian, of the catoecic settlers, agree that I have ceded to Maximus son of Diodoros also called Papontos, so that to Maximus himself and to his descendants and to those
3     acting for him, by transfer of registration, from the present day for all time, the paternal catoecic holding belonging to me, six arouras, and in addition to these a one-fourth aroura of the village's additional assessment,
4     all, or however many they may be, in one seal, in the so-called Hollow,
5     called Phregme; whose neighbours are: on the south, revenue-lands, with a water-channel running between; on the north, the holding of Psenosiris
6     son of Phamounis; on the west, the holding of Ammonios son of Ammonios and, for some part, the holding of Hero[n]as the barber, with a water-channel running between through which the holding is irrigated; on the east, the holding of Heron
7     son of Heraklios, with a water-channel running between into which the holding drains; on behalf of which I shall also carry out the appropriate [conveyances] of the transfer of registration and cession to Maximus through the
8     record-office of the catoecic land-allotments. And I receive from Maximus the established silver cession-price, the whole sum, at once, from hand to hand, out of the house, and I shall guarantee
9     the terms of this cession with every guarantee, both from public debts and all surcharges and embankment-dues and artaba-dues and arithmetic-tax and land-price and fine and all the other things demanded of the times above up to the present sixth year and the present sixth year itself of Tiberius Claudius
10    Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, and from private claims and every encroachment for all time, and I shall do each thing as is set out above. There wrote on his behalf
11    Maron son of Chresimos, because he writes rather slowly. I, Mysthas son of Akousilaos, have ceded and I receive the silver sum
12    and I shall guarantee, and I have ordered (this) to be written as is set out above. I, Maximus son of Dio[d]oros also called Papontos, the cession has been made to me
13    as is set out above. [There wrote on his behalf] Apollonios son of Lysimachos, because he does not know letters.
14    Mysthas, aged about …, with a scar on his lef[t] forearm. Maximus, aged about 25, with two scars between the eyebrows.
15    Maron son of Chresimos, aged about 30, with a scar on his r[ight] forearm.
16    Subscriber, Apollonios, aged about 25, with a scar on his left wrist.
