[META]
id:       P.MICHAEL 42a
label:    P.MICHAEL 42a
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       21417a
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.michael;;42a
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    συντελεστ …
r.2    υἱοῦ Βησαρίωνος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης χαίρειν. ὁμολογοῦμεν
r.3    διὰ ταύτης ἡμῶν τῆς ἐγγράφου ὑποθήκης ὀφε[ί]λειν καὶ χρεωστεῖν
r.4    τῇ σῇ εὐγενείᾳ ὑπὲρ τῶν συ[μπεφωνημένω]ν παρʼ ἡμῶν
r.5    νομίμων σου ἕδνων πρὸ γάμων μείξεως χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια
r.6    τριάκοντα εὔσταθμα δελταρίῳ ἐν κοσιμίαις, γίνεται χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια λ εὔσταθμα
r.7    δελταρίῳ ἐν κοσιμίαις· πρὸς δὲ τὴν τοῦ προγεγραμμένου
r.8    χρυσίου πίστιν τε καὶ ἀσφάλειαν καθʼ ἅπαντα … ἐντεῦθεν
r.9    ὑποτιθέμεθά σοι λόγῳ ἐνεχύρου καὶ ὑποθήκης δικαίῳ ἀρούρας
r.10   δέκα ἀπὸ ἑξήκοντα τεσσάρων ἀμμάτω[ν ἑκ]άστης ἀρούρης
r.11   τῷ δημοσίῳ σχοινίῳ ὅπου θέλεις ἀπὸ τοῦ σὺν Θεῷ κληρωθέντος
r.12   ὁλοκλήρου μέρους παρὰ τοῦ αὐτοῦ προειρημένου ἡμῶν υἱοῦ
r.13   Βησαρίονος ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων ἡμῖν κτημάτων τε καὶ
r.14   γεωργίων διακειμένων ἐν τῇ πεδιάδι τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης
r.15   Ἀφροδίτης ἐν διαφόροις κλήροις, σὺν ἀναλογοῦντι μέρει
r.16   τῶν αὐτῶν δέκα ἀρουρῶν τῶν ὑδρευμάτων πηγαίων τε
r.17   καὶ ἀ[ν]αβατικῶν καὶ μονῶν καὶ φοινίκων καὶ φυτῶν
r.18   ἐγκάρπων τε καὶ ἀκάρπων, μετὰ καὶ τῆς συντελείας αὐτῶν
r.19   πρὸς ἀναλογίαν ἀκολούθως τῇ δυνάμει τοῦ δημοσίου κώδικος
r.20   Ἰωάννου τοῦ τῆς λογίας μνήμης ἀπογενομένου σχολαστικοῦ
r.21   καὶ κηνσίτορος· πρὸς τό σε ἐντεῦθεν ἤδη ἔχειν τὴν πᾶσαν
r.22   τούτ[ω]ν δεσποτείαν καὶ ἐξουσίαν καὶ αὐθεντίαν καὶ οἰκεῖν καὶ
r.23   διοικεῖν καὶ οἰκονομεῖν, καὶ εἶναι ὑπό σε τὴν τούτων νο[μ]ήν,
r.24   ἄχρι ἀποδόσεως καὶ συμπληρώσεως παντὸς τοῦ προγεγραμμένου χρυσίου τῶν αὐτῶν τριάκοντα νομισμάτων
r.25   εὐστάθμων δελταρίῳ ἐν ἐνεχύροις· καὶ ἑτοίμως ἔχομεν
r.26   φ[υλά]ξαι τῇ σῇ εὐγενείᾳ τὴν τούτων καθαρὰν νομὴν
r.27   ἀνεπί[δάνιστον καὶ ἄ]πρατον καὶ ἀνυπόθετον ἑτέρῳ ἀνδρὶ ἄχρι ἐπίλυσεως
r.28   τούτου τοῦ χρέους· καὶ εἰς σὴν ἀσφάλειαν ταύτην τὴν
r.29   ὑποθήκην κατεθέμεθά σοι κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαίαν πανταχοῦ
r.30   προφερομένην, μεθʼ ὑπογραφῆς ἐμῆς Ἰακυβίου καὶ [τοῦ]
r.31   ὑπ[ὲρ Εἰρ]ήνης γαμετῆς αὐτοῦ ὑπογράφοντος καὶ τῶν ἑξῆς
r.32   συνηθῶν κατὰ παράκλησιν ἡμῶν μαρτυρησάντων
r.33   μαρτύρων. καὶ ἐφʼ ἅπαντα ἐπερωτηθέντες ὡμολογήσαμεν.
r.34   Αὐρήλιος Ἰακὼβ Φο[ι]βάμμωνος ὁ προκείμενος ἐθέμην ταύτην τὴν ὑποθήκην
r.35   τῶν τριάκοντα νομισμάτων, καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα τὰ ἐγγεγραμμένα
r.36   ὡς πρόκειται. Αὐρηλία Τιρήνη Βησαρίονος ἡ προκειμένη ἐθέμην ταύτην τὴν ὑποθήκην
r.37   τῶν τριάκοντα νομισμάτων, καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα τὰ
r.38   ἐγγεγραμμένα ὡς πρόκειται· Διόσκορος Ἰωσηφίου πρεσβύτερος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γράμματα μὴ εἰδυίας.
r.39   Αὐρήλιος Βησαρίον Ἰακυβίου υἱὸς τῶν προκειμένων Ἰακυβίου καὶ Εἰρήνης ὁ προκείμενος ἐθέμην [τ]αύτην
r.40   τὴν ὑποθήκην τῶν τριάκοντα νομισμάτων, καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα τὰ ἐγγεγραμμένα
r.41   ὡς πρόκειται … Αὐρήλιος Ἐνὼχ Ἡρακλείου μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὑποθήκῃ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Αὐρήλιος Παλ[ο]ῦς Ἰωάννου μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὑποθήκῃ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Αὐρήλιος Ἰερημίας Ποννίτος μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὑποθήκῃ
r.42   ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Φοιβάμμων Ἐνὼχ ἀναγνώστου μαρτυρῶ
r.43   τῇ ὑποθήκῃ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων. Αὐρήλιος Ἰωσήφις Ἰωάννου
r.44   μαρτυρῶ τῇ ὑποθήκῃ ἀκούσας παρὰ τῶν θεμένων.
r.45   διʼ ἐμοῦ Πιλάτου συμβολαιογράφου ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     contribut…
2     son of Besarion, from the same village of Aphrodite, greeting. We acknowledge
3     through this our written mortgage that we owe and are in debt
4     to your nobility, on account of the agreed-upon
5     lawful bridal-gifts due from us before the union of marriage, in gold solidi
6     thirty, of full weight by the deltarion-standard in kosimiai, that is gold solidi 30 of full weight
7     by the deltarion-standard in kosimiai; and for the security and guarantee of the aforesaid
8     gold in all respects … from now
9     we mortgage to you, by way of pledge and right of mortgage, ten arouras
10    out of sixty-four cubits to each aroura
11    by the public measuring-cord, wherever you wish, from the share allotted, God willing,
12    in whole, by our same aforesaid son
13    Besarion, from the properties and
14    farmlands belonging to us, lying in the plain of the same village
15    of Aphrodite in various holdings, with a proportionate share
16    of the same ten arouras of the watering-places, both of springs
17    and of those drawn up, and of the dwellings and palm-trees and plants
18    both fruit-bearing and unfruitful, together with their tax-payment
19    in proportion, in accordance with the assessment of the public codex
20    of John, of learned memory, deceased, scholasticus
21    and censitor; so that you have from now already the whole
22    ownership and authority and full power over these, and to dwell and
23    administer and manage, and that their possession be under you,
24    until the repayment and full discharge of all the aforesaid gold, of the same thirty solidi
25    of full weight by the deltarion-standard, in pledge; and we are ready
26    to keep safe for your nobility the clear possession of these,
27    free of further loan and unsold and unmortgaged to another man, until the discharge
28    of this debt; and for your security we have deposited with you this
29    mortgage, which shall be valid and secure, produced everywhere,
30    with the subscription of me Iakybios and [of him]
31    who subscribes on behalf of Eirene his wife, and with the customary subsequent
32    witnesses who at our request have borne witness,
33    witnesses. And concerning all things, having been formally questioned, we acknowledged.
34    Aurelius Jacob son of Phoibammon, the aforesaid, I deposited this mortgage
35    of the thirty solidi, and all the things written satisfy me
36    as set forth. Aurelia Tirene daughter of Besarion, the aforesaid, I deposited this mortgage
37    of the thirty solidi, and all the things satisfy me
38    written as set forth; Dioskoros son of Josephios, presbyter, having been requested, wrote on her behalf, she being illiterate.
39    Aurelius Besarion son of Iakybios, son of the aforesaid Iakybios and Eirene, the aforesaid, I deposited this
40    mortgage of the thirty solidi, and all the things written satisfy me
41    as set forth … Aurelius Enoch son of Heraklios, I witness the mortgage, having heard it from those who made it. Aurelius Palous son of John, I witness the mortgage, having heard it from those who made it. Aurelius Jeremias son of Ponnis, I witness the mortgage,
42    having heard it from those who made it. Phoibammon son of Enoch the reader, I witness
43    the mortgage, having heard it from those who made it. Aurelius Josephios son of John,
44    I witness the mortgage, having heard it from those who made it.
45    Through me Pilatos, notary, it was written.
