[META]
id:       P.Mich. 12.633
label:    P.Mich. 12.633
name:     Contract — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     30 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (30 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Land — zwei Kopien — teilweise Fruchtwechsel — Arbeiten
tm:       12297
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;12;633
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    εἰς χόρτου καὶ ἀράκου σπορὰν καταβρώματος προ[βάτων ἄνευ φόρου,]
r.2    τοῦ Κρονίωνος τοῦ … νος χορηγοῦντος αὐτοῖς σπερματα, τῶν δὲ [με]μισθωμένων τοὺς ποτισμοὺς καὶ χωματισμοὺς καὶ τὴν ἐπιμέλειαν τῶν χλωρῶν ποιουμένων, τοῦ
r.3    δὲ δευτέρου ἔτους τῆς μισθώσεως τὰς αὐτὰς ἀρούρας ὀκτὼ
r.4    εἰς πυροῦ σποράν, ἐκφορίου τοῦ παντὸς σὺν σπέρμασι αἷς λήμψονται οἱ μεμισθωμένοι πυροῦ ἀρτάβας ὀκτὼ τοῦ παντὸς πυροῦ νέου καθαροῦ ἀδόλου ἀρταβῶν ἑκατὸν
r.5    καὶ θαλλοῦ ἄρτων ἀρτάβης μιᾶς , τῶν δὲ ἄλλων ἀρουρῶν
r.6    πέντε ἐκφορίου τοῦ παντὸς καθʼ ἔτος σὺν σπέρμασι αἷς λήμψονται οἱ μεμισθωμένοι πυροῦ ἀρτάβας δύο ἥμισυ τοῦ
r.7    παντὸς καθʼ ἔτος πυροῦ νέου καθαροῦ ἀδόλου ἀρταβῶν τεσσαράκοντα καὶ θαλλοῦ καθʼ ἔτος ἄρτων ἡμιαρταβίου, ἅπαντα δὲ
r.8    μέτρωι ἑξαχοινίκῳ θησαυροῦ Σατορνίνου. ἡ μίσθωσις
r.9    ἥδε ἀκίνδυνος παντὸς κινδύνου καὶ ἀνυπόλογος παντὸς
r.10   ὑπολόγου, τὰ δὲ ἔργα πάντα τοῦ κλήρου καὶ τοὺς καθήκοντας
r.11   χωματισμοὺς καὶ ποτισμοὺς καὶ βοτανισμοὺς καὶ τὰ ἄλλα
r.12   γεωργικὰ ἔργα πάντα ἀγαγέτωσαν οἱ μεμισθωμένοι καθʼ ἔτος τοῖς δέουσι καιροῖς βλάβος μηδὲν ποιούμενοι τὰ δὲ σημαινόμενα ἐκφόρια ἀποδότωσαν οἱ μεμισθωμένοι
r.13   ἀεὶ ἐν μηνὶ Παῦνι καθεσταμένα ἐν κώμην Θεογονίδα
r.14   καὶ μετὰ τὸν χρόνον παραδώσουσι οἱ μεμισθωμένοι τὸν
r.15   κλῆρον καθαρὸν ἀπὸ θρύου ἀγρώστεως πάσης δείσης, τὸν δὲ
r.16   Αἰγύπτιον κάλαμον ἐξ ἐπικοπῆς καὶ τὰς διώρυγας ἀναβεβλημένας, καὶ μὴ ἐξέστω οὖν τοῖς μεμισθωμένοις ἐντὸς τοῦ
r.17   χρόνου ἐκλιπεῖν τὴν μίσθωσιν. βεβαιοῖ Κρονίων τὴν μίσθωσιν ἀπὸ δημοσίων χωρὶς ἄλλων ὧν ὀφείλουσι οἱ μεμισθωμένοι
r.18   κατὰ συνγραφὴν δανείων καὶ ἧς ἔχει αὐτοῦ σὺν ἑτέρῳ μίσθωσειν.
r.19   ὑπογραφεὺς Ἀφροδίσιος Ἡρώδου ὡς ἐτῶν λε οὐλὴ ὑπʼ ἀντικνήμιον δεξιόν.
r.20   Ὧρος Ὥρου καὶ οἱ υἱοὶ μου Ἑρμᾶς καὶ Ὡρος οἱ τρεῖς Πέρσαι
r.21   τῆς ἐπιγονῆς ἀλλήλον ἔνγυ[οι] εἰς ἔκτισιν μεμισθώμεθα
r.22   τὰς προκιμένας ἀρούρας δεκατρεῖς ἐπὶ τὰ προκίμενα
r.23   ἔτη δύο χωρὶς ἄλλων ἢ ὧν ὀφείλομεν τῷ Κρονίωνι κατὰ
r.24   συνγραφὴν δανείου καὶ ἧς ἔχει ἡμῶν σὺν ἑτέρῳ μίσθωσιν
r.25   καθὼς πρόκειται. ἔγραψε ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Ἀφροδίσιος Ἡρώδου
r.26   [δι]ὰ τὸ μὴ εἰδέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα. Κρονίων …
r.27   [με]μίσθωκα καὶ βεβαιώσω καθὼς πρόκειται. ἔτους …

[TRANSLATION]
1     for the sowing of hay and chickling-vetch as fodder for sheep, [without rent,]
2     Kronion, son of …, supplying them with seed, while the lessees perform the irrigations and the embankment-work and the care of the green crops, and
3     in the second year of the lease the same eight arouras
4     for the sowing of wheat, the total rent, together with the seed which the lessees shall receive, being eight artabas of wheat — of all the new, pure, unadulterated wheat one hundred artabas
5     and as a gift one artaba of bread-loaves; and of the other five arouras
6     the total rent each year, together with the seed which the lessees shall receive, being two and a half artabas of wheat — of all
7     the new, pure, unadulterated wheat each year forty artabas, and as a gift each year a half-artaba of bread-loaves; and all
8     by the six-choinix measure of the granary of Satorninus. This lease
9     is free from every risk and not subject to any
10    deduction, and all the work of the holding and the appropriate
11    embankment-work and irrigations and weeding and all the other
12    farm-work the lessees shall perform each year at the proper seasons, doing no damage; and the indicated rents the lessees shall pay
13    always in the month of Pauni, delivered to the village of Theogonis,
14    and after the term the lessees shall hand over the
15    holding clean of rushes, of dog's-tooth grass, of all coarse sedge, and the
16    Egyptian reeds cut down and the canals banked up; and let it not be permitted to the lessees within the
17    term to abandon the lease. Kronion guarantees the lease against public dues, apart from the other things which the lessees owe
18    by deed of loan and of the lease which he holds of his jointly with another.
19    Subscriber: Aphrodisios, son of Herodes, aged about 35, with a scar on the right shin.
20    Horos, son of Horos, and my sons Hermas and Horos, the three Persians
21    of the epigone, mutual sureties for payment, have leased
22    the aforesaid thirteen arouras for the aforesaid
23    two years, apart from other things or those which we owe to Kronion by
24    deed of loan and of the lease which he holds of ours jointly with another,
25    as is aforesaid. Aphrodisios, son of Herodes, wrote on their behalf
26    because they do not know letters. Kronion …
27    [I have] leased and I will guarantee, as is aforesaid. Year …
