[META]
id:       P.MICHAEL 42b
label:    P.MICHAEL 42b
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       21417b
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.michael;;42b
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλείας καὶ ὑπατείας τοῦ θειοτάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαουίου Ἰουστίνου τοῦ
r.2    αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου αὐτοκράτορος ἔτους δευτέρου Τῦβι τετάρτῃ, πεντεκαιδεκάτης ἰνδικτίονος
r.3    Αὐρήλιος Ἰακὼβ Φοιβάμμωνος Οὐετρανίου ἐκ μητρὸς Θέκλας καὶ ἡ τούτου
r.4    γαμετὴ Εἰρήνη Βησαρίονος ἐκ μητρὸς Ταλοῦτος συντελεσταὶ ἀπὸ κώμης
r.5    Ἀφροδίτης τοῦ Ἀνταιοπολίτου νομοῦ Αὐρηλίᾳ Ῥαχὴλ θυγατρὶ Φοιβάμμωνος
r.6    τῇ εὐ[γ]ενεστάτῃ σὺν Θεῷ γαμετῇ τοῦ ποθεινοτάτου ἡμῶν υἱοῦ Βησαρίονος
r.7    ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς κώμης Ἀφροδίτης χαίρειν. ὁμολογοῦμεν ἑκουσίως καὶ αὐθαιρέτως
r.8    μεμισθῶσθαι παρά σου, πρὸς ὃν βούλει χρόνον λογιζόμενον ἀπὸ καρπῶν σὺν Θεῷ
r.9    εἰσιούσης πρώτης ἰνδικτίονος, τὰς ὑποτεθείσας σοι παρʼ ἡμῶν νῦν δέκα ἀρούρας
r.10   σὺν μέρει τῶν ὑδρευμάτων πηγαίων τε καὶ ἀναβατικῶν καὶ μονῶν καὶ
r.11   δικαίων πάντων ὅπου θέλεις, ὥστε ἐξεῖναί σοι ταύτας λαβεῖν ἀπὸ τοῦ
r.12   σὺν Θ[ε]ῷ κληρωθέντος μέρους τῶν ἐν ἀγρῷ πραγμάτων
r.13   παρὰ τοὺ εἰρημένου ἡμῶν υἱοῦ Βησαρίονος καὶ τῶν ἐνόντων
r.14   ἐκεῖσε φοινίκων καὶ φυτῶν μετὰ τῆς αὐτῶν συντελείας πρὸς ἀναλογίαν
r.15   ἀκολούθως τῇ γενομένῃ σοι παρʼ ἡμῶν ὑποθηκιμαίᾳ συγγραφῇ τῇ
r.16   καὶ βεβαίᾳ μενούσῃ πανταχοῦ προφερομένῃ πρὸς τὴν δύναμιν αὐτῆς
r.17   ἐφʼ ᾧ ἡμᾶς ταύτας ἔχειν ὑφʼ ἡμᾶς εἰς γεωργίαν καὶ εἰς κατάθεσιν ὧν ἐὰν
r.18   βουλώμεθα γενημάτων, καὶ ἀντὶ τῶν τούτων παντοίων ἐδφορίων
r.19   ὥστε ἡμᾶς πληρῶσαι τὴν παντοίαν αὐτῶν δημοσίαν συντελείαν
r.20   καθʼ ἕκαστον ἔτος· ἡ μισθωτικὴ ὁμολογία κυρία ἔσται καὶ βεβαία· καὶ ἐφʼ ἅπαντα
r.21   ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα· μεθʼ ὑπογραφῆς ἐμῆς Ἰακυβίου καὶ ὑπὲρ Εἰρήνης
r.22   συμβίου αὐτοῦ. Αὐρήλιος Ἰακὼβ Φοιβάμμωνος ὁ προκείμενος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς ππρόκειται. Αὐρηλία Εἰρήνη Βησαρίον ἡ προκειμένη μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται.
r.23   Διόσκορος Ἰωσηφίου πρεσβύτερος ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γραμ …
r.24   μὴ εἰδυίας. Αὐρήλιος Βησαρίον υἱὸς τῶν προκειμένων Ἰακυβίου καὶ Εἰρήνης ὁ προκείμενος μεμίσθωμαι ὡς πρόκειται.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign and consulship of our most divine master Flavius Justin the
2     eternal Augustus emperor, in the second year, Tybi the fourth, of the fifteenth indiction.
3     Aurelius Jacob son of Phoibammon son of Vetranios, his mother being Thekla, and his
4     wife Eirene daughter of Besarion, her mother being Talous, taxpayers from the village of
5     Aphrodite of the Antaiopolite nome, to Aurelia Rachel daughter of Phoibammon,
6     the most noble, with God wife of our most longed-for son Besarion,
7     from the same village of Aphrodite, greeting. We acknowledge willingly and of our own free choice
8     that we have leased from you, for whatever period you wish, reckoned from the crops, with God,
9     of the coming first indiction, the ten arouras now mortgaged to you by us,
10    together with a share of the irrigation works, both of springs and of those drawn up, and of dwellings and
11    of all rights, wherever you wish, so that it shall be permitted to you to take these from the
12    portion allotted, with God, of the property in the field,
13    from our aforesaid son Besarion and from the palm-trees and plants
14    being there, together with their tax-liability, in proportion,
15    in accordance with the mortgage-deed made to you by us, which
16    also remains valid everywhere, being produced according to its force,
17    on the condition that we hold these under us for cultivation and for the deposit of whatever
18    crops we wish, and in return for all the rents of these,
19    so that we discharge the whole public tax-liability of them
20    each year. The lease-agreement shall be valid and secure; and to all questions
21    being formally asked, I have acknowledged; with my own subscription, of Jacob, and on behalf of Eirene
22    his spouse. I, Aurelius Jacob son of Phoibammon, the aforesaid, have leased as aforesaid. I, Aurelia Eirene daughter of Besarion, the aforesaid, have leased as aforesaid.
23    I, Dioskoros son of Josephios, presbyter, having been requested, wrote on her behalf, since she does not know lett…
24    …letters. I, Aurelius Besarion, son of the aforesaid Jacob and Eirene, the aforesaid, have leased as aforesaid.
