[META]
id:       P.Mich. 20.816
label:    P.Mich. 20.816
name:     Letter — Oxyrhynchos bzw. Alexandria
genre:    letters
date:     374 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos bzw. Alexandria
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Oxyrhynchos bzw. Alexandria (374 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (amtlich) — Abschrift — praefectus annonae Alexandriae an den Exactor des Oxyrhynchites — Bestätigung — daß ein Transport von Weizen in Alexandria eingetroffen und in Speicher eingelagert worden ist; Aufstellung über verschiedene Posten von Getreide
tm:       15703
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;20;816
lat:      31.2001
lon:      29.9187

[GREEK]
r.1    ἀντίτυπον
r.2    Φλάουιος Κ[λ]αύδιος Πατρίκιος ὁ λαμπρότατος ἔπαρχος ἀννώνης Ἀλεξανδρείας
r.3    [ἐ]ξάκτορ[ι] Ὀξυρυγχείτου χαίρειν.
r.4    κατὰ τὴν ἀποσταλεῖσαν παρὰ σοῦ πρὸς τὴν τάξιν ἀναφορὰν γίγνωσκε εἰσκεκομίσθαι τοῖς
r.5    κατὰ Ἀλεξάνδρειαν θείοις θησαυροῖς ἐκ τοῦ ὑπὸ σὲ νομοῦ διὰ Ὡρίωνος Πτολεμαίου καὶ Ἡσυχίου Ἰουλιαν[ο]ῦ καὶ κοινων[ῶν] ἐπιμελητῶν διὰ τῶν ἑξῆς πολυκωπιτῶν ὑπὲρ β ἰνδικτίωνος σίτου
r.6    ἀρτάβας χιλίας ἐννακοσίας τεσσεράκοντα τρεῖς , τῇ μὲν πρὸ μιᾶς Νωνῶν Ἀπριλίων ἀρτάβας ὀκτακοσίας ἐννενήκοντα ἥμισυ , καὶ τῇ πρὸ τεσσάρων Εἰδῶν τῶν αὐτῶν ἀρτάβας χιλίας πεντήκοντα δύο ἥμισυ ὑπατείας τοῦ δεσπότου ἡμῶν Γρατιανοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγούστου τὸ γ καὶ Φλαουίου
r.7    Ἐκουτίου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου κόμιτος καὶ ἀναφέρεσθαι τοῖς λόγοις ἐξ ὑποσημειώσεως Ἀγαθοῦ Δαίμονος
r.8    καὶ Μεγετίου καὶ Νεμ[ε]σίωνος καὶ Ἀσκλᾶ ἀπὸ στρατιᾶς ὑποδεκτῶν καὶ ἐξ ἀναφορᾶς ἰδίῳ
r.9    κινδύνῳ Ἀρίου καὶ Ἰσιδώρου τῶν ταβουλαρίων τῆς τάξεως καὶ Ἐπιμάχου καὶ Προεχίου
r.10   οἰκονόμων καὶ Διονυσίου βοηθοῦ διακεντήσεως ἧς τὸ ἀντίτυπον ὑποτέτακται ἡ ἐμὴ
r.11   καθοσίωσις μεμάθηκεν, ὅπερ τῆς καταβολῆς ἕνεκεν ἀντιγραφῆναί σοι προσέταξα. ἔρρωσο.
r.12   ἔστι δέ·
r.13   διὰ Παωμ[ίο]υ ἀρτάβαι ωϙ 𐅵, διὰ Πααβεῦτος ἀρτάβαι Ανβ 𐅵
r.14   Φλάουιος Ἰσίδωρος ταβουλάριος συμφωνεῖ τὸ προκείμενον μέτρον τοῦ σίτου ἐν ἀρτάβαις
r.15   χιλίαις ἐννακοσίαις τεσσεράκοντα τρισὶν ὡς προκείται.
r.16   Φλάουιος Νεμεσί[ω]ν ὑποδέκτης ἐσημειωσάμην τὴ[ν] ἀποχὴ[ν] τοῦ σίτου ἐν ἀρτάβαις χιλίαις ἐννακοσίαις
r.17   τεσσεράκοντα τρισὶν μόναις.
r.18   Φλάουιος Ἐπίμαχος οἰκονόμος συμφωνεῖ τὸ τὸ προκείμενον μέτρον τοῦ σίτου ἐν ἀρτάβαις
r.19   χιλίαις ἐννακοσίαις τεσσεράκοντα τρισὶν μόναις.
r.20   Φλάουιος Ἀμμώνιος βοηθὸς συμφωνεῖ ἐν ἀρτάβαις χιλίαις ἐννακοσίαις τεσσεράκοντα τρισὶν σίτου μόναις.
r.21   Αὐρήλιος Σεραπίων ἐπιμελητὴς ἔσχον ἅμα τοῖς κοινωνοῖς τὴν ἐπενεχθεῖσαν ὑπὸ σοῦ αὐθεντικὴν ἀποχὴν τοῦδε τοῦ ἀντιτύπου
r.22   τούτου ὡς πρόκειται.
r.23   Παυμίου σίτου ἀρτάβαι ωϙ 𐅵 καὶ Πααβεῦτος σίτου ἀρτάβαι Ανβ 𐅵 πολυκωπιτῶν
r.24   τῆς β ἰνδικτίωνος.
r.25   λόγος κρ[ι]θ[ῆ]ς … πεδεξα Κοπρέως ἐπὶ τῆς πέμπτης ἰνδικτίωνος
r.26   οὕτ[ω]ς·
r.27   παρὰ Κοπ[ρέ]ως καὶ τ[ῶν] ἀδελφῶν ἀπὸ λόγου φόρου ἀρταβ λα 𐅵, ἀπὸ λόγου ἐκθέσεως ἀρταβ ζ, διαφόρου ἀρταβ β γ, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ μ 𐅵 γ.
r.28   παρὰ Πα … φ[ό]ρ[ου] ἀρταβ λα 𐅷, ἐκθέσεως ἀρταβ ε, διαφόρου ἀρταβ α 𐅷, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ λη ϛ.
r.29   παρὰ Πλ … τι καὶ Διδ … ἀπὸ λόγου ἐκθέσεως ἀρταβ ιε, διαφόρου ἀρταβ ε, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ κ.
r.30   παρὰ Το … υ ἀπὸ Πέτν[η] [λό]γου κεφαλαίου ἀρταβ κβ, διαφόρου ἀρταβ ζ γ, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ κθ γ.
r.31   παρὰ [Πα]ταεῖς ἀπὸ ἐποικίου Μελανθίου κεφαλαίου ἀρταβ ιζ, διαφόρου ἀρταβ ε 𐅷, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ κβ 𐅷.
r.32   παρὰ N … κ Παύλου … λλω … καὶ Κοπρι ἀρταβ ϛ, διαφόρου ἀρταβ β, ὁμοῦ ἀρταβ η.
r.33   τούτων ἀνηνέχθη διὰ Κοπρέως εἰς τὴν πόλιν εἰς Μεσορὴ κε ἀρταβ ιγ
r.34   καὶ ἀ[νη]νέχθη εἰς τὴν πόλιν διὰ τοῦ μικροῦ χιμαυ Ἀγάθωνος ἀρταβ ιε
r.35   καὶ ε[ἰ]ς ἕτερον πλοῖον διὰ Ἠλίας ἀπὸ ἐποικίου Ψάμμιδος ἀρταβ ιϛ
r.36   Παυμ[ίῳ] ποταμίτῃ ἀρταβ α
r.37   Παπ … νουθίου ἀπὸ … εννω μέτρα τέσσαρες
r.38   Μαρ[τυ]ρίῳ ἀμπελ[ο]υργῷ μέτρα πέντε, τῷ ὄνῳ μέτρον α
r.39   καὶ ἀνηνέχθη δι’ ἐμοῦ εἰς τὴν πόλιν ἀρταβ α.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Copy.
2     Flavius Claudius Patricius, the most illustrious prefect of the annona of Alexandria,
3     to the [ex]actor of the Oxyrhynchite, greeting.
4     In accordance with the report sent by you to the office, know that there has been brought into the
5     divine storehouses at Alexandria, from the nome under you, through Horion son of Ptolemaeus and Hesychius son of Julianus and their associate superintendents, by means of the following bargemen, for the 2nd indiction, of grain
6     one thousand nine hundred forty-three artabas: on the day before the Nones of April eight hundred ninety and a half artabas, and on the fourth day before the Ides of the same month one thousand fifty-two and a half artabas, in the consulship of our master Gratianus eternal Augustus for the 3rd time and of Flavius
7     Equitius the most illustrious comes; and that it is entered in the accounts on the authorization of Agathos Daimon
8     and Megetius and Nemesion and Asklas, of the soldiery, the receivers, and on the report at his own
9     risk of Arius and Isidorus, the tabularii of the office, and of Epimachus and Proechius
10    the stewards, and of Dionysius the assistant of the verification—of which (report) the copy is appended—my
11    Devotedness has learned (it); and this, for the sake of the payment, I have ordered to be copied for you. Farewell.
12    And it is as follows:
13    Through Paomis, artabas 890½; through Paabeus, artabas 1,052½.
14    Flavius Isidorus the tabularius, the aforesaid measure of grain agrees, in artabas
15    one thousand nine hundred forty-three, as is aforesaid.
16    Flavius Nemesion the receiver, I have signed the receipt of the grain, in artabas one thousand nine hundred
17    forty-three only.
18    Flavius Epimachus the steward, the aforesaid measure of grain agrees, in artabas
19    one thousand nine hundred forty-three only.
20    Flavius Ammonius the assistant, it agrees, in one thousand nine hundred forty-three artabas of grain only.
21    Aurelius Serapion the superintendent, I, together with my associates, received the authentic receipt produced by you of this copy
22    of this (document), as is aforesaid.
23    Of Paomis, of grain, artabas 890½, and of Paabeus, of grain, artabas 1,052½, of the bargemen
24    of the 2nd indiction.
25    Account of barley … received (from?) Kopreus in the fifth indiction
26    thus:
27    From Kop[r]eus and the brothers, from the account of rent, artabas 31½; from the account of assessment, artabas 7; of surplus, artabas 2⅓; in all, artabas 40⅚.
28    From Pa… of re[n]t, artabas 31⅔; of assessment, artabas 5; of surplus, artabas 1⅔; in all, artabas 38⅚.
29    From Pl…tis and Did…, from the account of assessment, artabas 15; of surplus, artabas 5; in all, artabas 20.
30    From To…us, from Petne, from the account of the principal, artabas 22; of surplus, artabas 7⅓; in all, artabas 29⅓.
31    From [Pa]taeis, from the hamlet of Melanthius, of the principal, artabas 17; of surplus, artabas 5⅔; in all, artabas 22⅔.
32    From N… (of) Paulus … llo … and Kopris, artabas 6; of surplus, artabas 2; in all, artabas 8.
33    Of these there was brought up through Kopreus to the city on Mesore 25, artabas 13.
34    And there was brought up to the city through the little … of Agathon, artabas 15.
35    And into another boat through Elias, from the hamlet of Psammis, artabas 16.
36    To Paomis the boatman, artabas 1.
37    Pap…nouthis, from … ennō, four measures.
38    To Martyrius the vine-dresser, five measures; for the donkey, 1 measure.
39    And there was brought up through me to the city, artabas 1.
