[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.306
label:    P.Mich. 5.306
name:     Contract — Arsinoites
genre:    contracts
date:     1 CE – 100 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Arsinoites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Arsinoites (1 CE – 100 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Haus
tm:       25198
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;306
lat:      29.2863267013
lon:      30.7347325572

[GREEK]
r.1    Ψενοβάστις ὃς καὶ Χαλῆς Θηβαίου μητρὸς Ταγελεῦτος ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι
r.2    Λαβήσει Λαβήσιος μητρὸς Ἀρσινόης ἀπὸ τῆς ὑπαρχούσης μοι αὐλῆς, ἐκ τοῦ πρὸς
r.3    ἀπηλιώτου μέρους τῆς αὐλῆς, πήχεις τρεῖς , ἐν τῶι ἐνόντι τείχει, διατείνοντας νότου ἐπὶ βορρᾶ πήχεις δέκα πέντε παλαιστὰς πέντε , ἐκ δὲ τοῦ
r.4    πρὸς νότου μέρους ὁμοίως τῆς αὐτῆς αὐλῆς μου νότου ἐπὶ βορρᾶ πήχεις ἓξ δίμοιρον λιβὸς ἐπʼ ἀπηλιώτην πήχεις ὀκτὼ παλαιστὰς πέντε ,
r.5    ἐπὶ δὲ ἁπάντων πήχει ξυλικῶι τεκτονικῶι τελείωι· γείτονες νότου
r.6    Ἡρακλήου τοῦ Ἀφροδισίου οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος Παπνεβτύνιος τοῦ Παανούφεως οἰκία, βορρᾶ τοῦ ἀποδομένου Χαλήους τόποι, λιβὸς Παπνεβτύνιος Παανούφιος οἰκία καὶ ἐπί τι μέρος τοῦ αὐτοῦ Χαλήους τόποι, ἀπηλιώτου τοῦ
r.7    πριαμένου Λαβήσιος τόποι. καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Λαβήσιος τὴν συνκεχωρημένην τιμὴν πᾶσαν ἐκ πλήρους διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ βεβαιώσω τὴν πρᾶσι[ν] πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων καὶ παντὸς εἴδους. εὐδοκοῦσι δὲ
r.8    ἡ γυνή μου Τααρμιῦσις Ἁρμιύσιος καὶ Ὀ[ρσενοῦφι]ς τοῦ Ὀρσενούφιος καὶ ἡ τοῦ
r.9    Ὀρσενούφιος γυνὴ Θερμοῦθις Μέρσιος τῇ πράσει ταύτηι καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον μηδʼ ἐνκαλέσειν μηδὲ ἄλλον ὑπὲρ
r.10   αὐτῶν καθὼς πρόκιται. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Εὔτυχος πρεσβύτερος
r.11   Εὐτύχου διὰ τὸ μὴ [εἰ]δέναι αὐτοὺς γράμματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Psenobastis also called Chales, son of Thebaios, his mother being Tageleus, I acknowledge that I have sold
2     to Labesis son of Labesis, his mother being Arsinoe, from the courtyard belonging to me, from the
3     eastern part of the courtyard, three cubits, in the existing wall, extending from south to north fifteen cubits, five palms, and from the
4     southern part likewise of the same courtyard of mine, from south to north six cubits and two-thirds, from west to east eight cubits, five palms,
5     and in every case by the carpenter's full wooden cubit; neighbours: on the south,
6     the house of Herakleios son of Aphrodisios and in part the house of Papnebtynis son of Paanouphis; on the north, the (vacant) spaces of the seller Chales; on the west, the house of Papnebtynis son of Paanouphis and in part the (vacant) spaces of the same Chales; on the east, the
7     (vacant) spaces of the buyer Labesis. And I have received from Labesis the whole agreed price in full, by hand, from the house, and I shall guarantee the sal[e] with every guarantee, from both public (claims) and every kind (of charge). And there consent
8     my wife Taarmiysis daughter of Harmiysis, and O[rsenouphi]s son of Orsenouphis, and the wife of
9     Orsenouphis, Thermouthis daughter of Mersis, to this sale, and (agree) not to proceed against (it) for all time, nor to bring a claim, nor anyone else on
10    their behalf, as is aforesaid. Eutychos the elder son of
11    Eutychos wrote on their behalf because they do not know letters.
