[META]
id:       P.Mich. 5.244
label:    P.Mich. 5.244
name:     Documentary papyrus — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    documents
date:     43 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (43 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Satzung — Verein — Domäne — Kaiser — Steuern — Kopf — Kult — Bürgschaft — Trauer
tm:       12085
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mich;5;244
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτ[ο]υς τρίτου Τιβερί[ο]υ Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος μηνὸς Καισαρείου ἐπαγομένων τρίτηι
r.2    … ἐν Τεβτύνει τῆς Πολέμωνος μερίδος τοῦ Ἀρσινοείτου νομοῦ. ἐλθόντες ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτὸ οἱ ὑπογεγραμμένοι ἄνδρες
r.3    τῶν ἀπὸ Τεβτύνεως ἀπολυσίμων οὐσίας Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος ἔδοξαν
r.4    ἑαυτοῖς κοινῇ γνώμῃ προχειρίσαι τινὰ ἐξ αὐτῶν ἄνδρα ἀγαθώτατον καὶ ἐπιμελητὴν Κρονίωνα Ἡρώδου ἐπʼ ἐνιαυτὸν ἕνα ἀπὸ μηνὸς Σεβαστοῦ τοῦ εἰσιόντος τετάρτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ,
r.5    Αὐτοκράτορος, τοῦ αὐτοῦ Κρονίωνος εἰσάγοντος τὰ δημόσια τῶν αὐτῶν ἀπολυσίμων λαογραφίας τε καὶ δαπάνας
r.6    πάσας τοῦ αὐτοῦ πλήθους. ἐὰν δὲ συνταγὴν δῷ ὁ ἡγούμενος ἐπ[ὶ] μὲν κώμης καὶ μὴ παραγένηταί τις ζημιούσθω εἰς τὸ κοινὸν ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς δύο πλὴν ἀνατιλεωση … υ δραχμὴν μίαν , ἐπὶ ξένης δραχμὰς τέσσαρας , ἐπὶ δὲ τῆς μητροπόλεως δραχμὰς ὀκτώ . ἐὰν δέ τις τῶν ὑπογεγραμμένων ἀνδρῶν παραδοθῇ ἕως πρὸς
r.7    [ἀ]ργυρίου δραχμῶν ἑκατὸν ἱκανοδοθήσεται ὑπὸ τοῦ κοινοῦ ἐφʼ ἡμέρας ἑξήκοντα . τὸν δὲ ἀδωσιδικοῦντα καὶ μὴ
r.8    πληροῦντά τι τῶν δημοσίων λαογραφίας ἢ καὶ δαπανῶν ἐξεῖναι τῷ Κρονίωνι ἐνεχυράζειν αὐτοὺς ἔν τε τῆι
r.9    πλατείᾳ καὶ ἐν ταῖς οἰκίαις καὶ παραδιδόναι αὐτοὺς ἢ σώματα αὐτῶν· ἐφʼ ὧι δὲ οἱ ὑπογεγραμμένοι ἄνδρες διαγρά[ψ]ο[υσιν] ἐκ τοῦ κοινοῦ εἰς τὴν αὐτὴν οὐσίαν ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ τοῦ προγεγραμμένου Κρονίωνος τὴν λαογραφίαν τοῦ αὐτοῦ εἰσιόντος τετάρτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Κλαυδίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Αὐτοκράτορος· ἐφʼ ὧι δὲ πίονται κατὰ μῆνα
r.10   ταῖς τοῦ θεοῦ Σεβαστοῦ ἡμέραις τοῦ αὐτοῦ Κρονίωνος προεκφέροντος πόσιν προπόσεως καὶ πάντας ἐνακούειν
r.11   τῶι αὐτῷ ἡγουμένῳ. ἐὰν δέ τις κεφαλαιωτὴς τελευτήσῃ [ἢ] πατὴρ ἢ μήτηρ ἢ γυνὴ ἢ τέκνον ἢ ἀδελφὸς ἢ ἀδελφὴ καὶ μὴ μιανθῇ τις τῶν ὑπογεγραμμένων ἀνδρῶν ζημιούσθω ὁ τοιοῦτος εἰς τὸ κοινὸν ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς
r.12   τέσσαρας καὶ ἑστιαθήσεται ὁ παθινὸς ὑπὸ τοῦ κοινοῦ ἐφʼ ἡμέραν μίαν , τὸν δὲ ἀδωσιδικοῦντα καὶ μὴ πληροῦντά τι ὁμοίως κα[ὶ] τῶν συμβολῶν καὶ δαπανῶν ἐξεῖναι τῷ αὐτῷ ἡγουμένωι ἐνεχυράζειν καὶ
r.13   παραδιδόναι καθὼς πρόκιται.
r.14   Κρονίων Ἡρώδου ἡγούμενος ὡς ἐτῶν λε οὐλὴ ἀντικνημίῳ ἀριστερῶι
r.15   Ὀννόφρις Νεφερῶτος ὡς ἐτῶν μ οὐλὴ ὀφρύι ἀριστερᾷ
r.16   Ψενκῆβκις Μαρρήους ὡς ἐτῶν λη οὐλὴ μετώπῳ ἐξ ἀριστερῶν ὑπὲρ ὀφρύν
r.17   Πανεσνεῦς Ἁρμιύσιος ὡς [ἐτῶν] λ οὐλὴ ὀφρύι δεξιᾷ
r.18   Σιγῆρις Πακήβκιος ὡς ἐτῶν κθ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ ἐξ ἀριστερῶν παρὰ κρόταφον
r.19   Πακῆβκις Σιγήρεως ὡς ἐτῶν λε οὐλὴ ἀντίχειρι ἀριστερῶι
r.20   Σεκονῶπις Παποντῶτος τοῦ καὶ Διοδώρου ὡς ἐτῶν λβ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ μέσῳ.
r.21   Ἀνχιοῦς Ἀνχιοῦτος … ερ … ε … ὡς ἐτῶν λ οὐλὴ ἀντικνημίῳ δεξιῶι
r.22   Ὀρσεῦς β Πετερμούθιος τοῦ καὶ Κυβερόμνεως ὡς ἐτῶν λγ οὐλὴ ἀντίχειρι ἀριστερῷ
r.23   Παπνεβτῦνις Παπνεβ[τ]ύ[ν]ιος ὡς ἐτῶν λγ οὐλὴ ὑπὲρ μῆλον ἀριστε[ρ]ὸν
r.24   Κρονίων Λαβήσιος ὡς [ἐτῶν] λ οὐλὴ ῥινὶ ὑπὸ μεσόφρυν
r.25   Εὔτυχος Εὐτύχου τοῦ … ὡς ἐτῶν λ οὐλὴ ἀ[ν]τίχειρι δεξιῷ
r.26   Ὀρσεῦς Πετεσούχου το[ῦ] Φ … ους ὡς ἐτῶν ν οὐλὴ πήχει δεξιῷ
r.27   Πετεσοῦχος Πρώτου τ[οῦ] Ἁρ[μ]ά[ιος] ὡς ἐτῶν λε οὐλὴ πήχει δεξιῶι.
r.28   Σισώεις Εὐτύχου οἰκοδόμος ὡς ἐτῶν λθ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ μέσωι
r.29   Λαβῆσις Λαβήσεως ὡς ἐτῶν λε ουλαὶ μετώπωι
r.30   Ἁρμάεις Ἁρμάειος ὡς ἐτῶν λγ οὐλὴ ἀντίχειρι ἀριστερῷ
r.31   Κόμων Ἀνχιοῦτος ὡς ἐτῶν λζ οὐλὴ μετώπῳ ἐκ δεξιῶν
r.32   Ὀρσεῦς Παπνεβτύνεως ὡς ἐτῶν λ οὐλὴ δακτύλῳ μικρῷ χειρὸς ἀριστερᾶς
r.33   Ἑρμᾶς Ἀνχιοῦτος ὡς ἐτῶν λγ οὐλὴ γόνατι ἀριστερῷ
r.34   Ὀρσεῦς Ἁρυώτου Νανᾶς ὡς ἐτῶν λδ οὐλὴ δακτύλῳ πρώτῳ χειρὸς ἀριστερᾶς
r.35   Ἁμάεις Μαρρήους ὡς ἐτῶν λε οὐλὴ ὀφρύι ἀριστερᾷ
r.36   Ὧρος Ἁρμιύσιος ὡς ἐτῶν λβ οὐλὴ δακτύλῳ πρώτῳ χειρὸς δεξιᾶς
r.37   Παποντῶς Παπνεβτύνεως ὡς ἐτῶν λβ οὐλὴ ποδὶ ἀριστερῷ.
r.38   Κρονίων Ἡρ[ώ]δου ἡγούμενος ἐψήφισμαι καθὼς πρόκιται.
r.39   Εὔτυχος Εὐτύχου τοῦ [καὶ] … πεου ἐψήφισμαι.
r.40   χειρόγραφον Κρονίωνος τοῦ Ἡρωδίωνος.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the third year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, in the month Caesareus, on the third intercalary day,
2     … in Tebtynis of the division of Polemon of the Arsinoite nome. Having come together to the same place, the undersigned men
3     of those from Tebtynis (who are) released (workers) of the estate of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator, resolved
4     among themselves by common consent to elect one of their number, a most excellent man and epimeletes, Kronion son of Herodes, for one year from the month Sebastos of the coming fourth year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus,
5     Imperator, the same Kronion bringing in the public dues of the same released (workers), both the poll-tax and all the
6     expenses of the same body. And if the leader gives an order, in the village, and someone does not present himself, let him be fined for the common (fund) two drachmas of silver—except … one drachma—abroad four drachmas, and in the metropolis eight drachmas. And if any of the undersigned men is handed over (to prison) up to
7     one hundred drachmas of silver, he shall be furnished bail by the common (fund) for sixty days. And the one who is liable to suit and does not
8     fulfill any of the public dues, of poll-tax or also of expenses, let it be permitted to Kronion to take them in pledge both in the
9     street and in the houses, and to hand them over, or their persons; and on condition that the undersigned men shall pay out from the common (fund) into the same estate, on behalf of the aforewritten Kronion himself, the poll-tax of the same coming fourth year of Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus Imperator; and on condition that they shall drink each month
10    on the days of the god Augustus, the same Kronion proposing the toast of the libation, and that all give heed
11    to the same leader. And if any officer dies, or father or mother or wife or child or brother or sister, and one of the undersigned men is not defiled (does not attend the mourning), let such a one be fined for the common (fund) of silver drachmas
12    four, and the bereaved shall be feasted by the common (fund) for one day; and the one who is liable to suit and does not fulfill anything, likewise also of the contributions and expenses, let it be permitted to the same leader to take in pledge and
13    to hand over, as is aforesaid.
14    Kronion son of Herodes, the leader, about 35 years old, with a scar on his left shin.
15    Onnophris son of Nepheros, about 40 years old, with a scar on his left eyebrow.
16    Psenkebkis son of Marres, about 38 years old, with a scar on his forehead on the left above the eyebrow.
17    Panesneus son of Harmiysis, about 30 years old, with a scar on his right eyebrow.
18    Sigeris son of Pakebkis, about 29 years old, with a scar on his forehead on the left beside the temple.
19    Pakebkis son of Sigeris, about 35 years old, with a scar on his left thumb.
20    Sekonopis son of Papontos also called Diodorus, about 32 years old, with a scar in the middle of his forehead.
21    Anchious son of Anchious … er … e … about 30 years old, with a scar on his right shin.
22    Orseus the 2nd, son of Petermouthis also called Kyberomneus, about 33 years old, with a scar on his left thumb.
23    Papnebtynis son of Papnebtynis, about 33 years old, with a scar above his left cheek.
24    Kronion son of Labesis, about 30 years old, with a scar on his nose below the brow.
25    Eutychos son of Eutychos son of … about 30 years old, with a scar on his right thumb.
26    Orseus son of Petesouchos son of Ph…us, about 50 years old, with a scar on his right forearm.
27    Petesouchos son of Protos son of Harmais, about 35 years old, with a scar on his right forearm.
28    Sisoeis son of Eutychos, builder, about 39 years old, with a scar in the middle of his forehead.
29    Labesis son of Labesis, about 35 years old, with scars on his forehead.
30    Harmaeis son of Harmaeis, about 33 years old, with a scar on his left thumb.
31    Komon son of Anchious, about 37 years old, with a scar on his forehead on the right.
32    Orseus son of Papnebtynis, about 30 years old, with a scar on the little finger of his left hand.
33    Hermas son of Anchious, about 33 years old, with a scar on his left knee.
34    Orseus son of Haryotes, Nanas, about 34 years old, with a scar on the first finger of his left hand.
35    Hamaeis son of Marres, about 35 years old, with a scar on his left eyebrow.
36    Horos son of Harmiysis, about 32 years old, with a scar on the first finger of his right hand.
37    Papontos son of Papnebtynis, about 32 years old, with a scar on his left foot.
38    Kronion son of Herodes, the leader, have voted as is aforesaid.
39    Eutychos son of Eutychos also called …peus, have voted.
40    The autograph of Kronion son of Herodion.
