[META]
id:       P.MON.APOLLO 1.25
label:    P.MON.APOLLO 1.25
name:     Documentary papyrus — Bawit
genre:    documents
date:     701 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Bawit
held:     Würzburg
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Bawit (701 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Verzicht — Eigentum — Dikaion — archimandrite — protokometes
tm:       87794
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mon.apollo;1;25
lat:      27.532343
lon:      30.72925

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲓⲥⲁⲕ ⲡμοναχός ⲙⲡτόπος ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲁⲡⲟⲗⲗⲱ ⲉⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲙⲡδίκαιον ⲙⲡμοναστήριον ⲙⲡτόπος ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲁⲡⲟⲗⲗⲱ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧϥ ⲙⲡⲙⲁⲓⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲛⲓⲱⲧ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲁⲡⲁ ⲇⲁⲛⲓⲏⲗ ⲡἀρχιμανδρίτης
r.2    ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲓ[ⲱⲧ ⲙⲡτόπος] ϫⲉ ἐπειδή ⲉⲣⲉⲙⲁ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ϩⲓϫⲱⲓ ⲁⲧἀπορεῖν ⲧⲁϩⲟⲓ ⲙⲡⲓϣδιοικεῖν ⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲡⲉⲥⲛⲁⲩ ⲁⲓπαρακαλεῖν ⲛϩⲉⲛⲕⲉⲛⲟϭ ⲛⲥⲛⲏⲟⲩ ⲛἀξιόπιστος ⲛⲧⲉⲡμοναστήριον ⲁⲩπαρακαλεῖν ⲛⲧⲉⲕⲙⲧⲓⲱⲧ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲓ ⲁⲡⲉⲕⲛⲁ
r.3    ⲧⲁϩⲟⲓ ⲁⲕⲃⲓ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ϩⲓⲱⲟⲩ ϩⲓϫⲱⲓ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲡⲁϣⲉ ⲛⲧλίμνη ⲧⲉ ⲁⲕϭⲱⲡ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲓⲉⲣⲏⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲁⲕⲛⲟϭⲥ ⲉϫⲱϥ
r.4    ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲃⲥⲱⲕ ϩⲁ ⲛⲉⲥδημόσιον ⲧⲓⲛⲟⲩ δέ ⲧⲓἀποτάσσεσθαι ⲙⲡⲁμέρος ϩⲛ ⲧλίμνη πρός ⲧϩⲉ ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲕⲱⲣϣ
r.5    ⲛⲉⲛⲟϭ ⲛⲥⲛⲏⲟⲩ ⲁⲩπαρακαλεῖν ⲛⲧⲉⲕⲙⲧⲓⲱⲧ ⲁⲡⲉⲕⲛⲁ ⲧⲁϩⲟⲓ ⲧⲓⲛⲟⲩ δέ ⲛⲓϣἐνάγειν ⲙⲡτόπος ⲙⲛ [ⲧⲉⲕ]ⲙⲧⲓⲱⲧ οὐδέ ⲡⲕⲁⲓⲓⲉⲣⲉⲙⲓⲁⲥ ⲡⲏⲛⲧⲁⲩⲛⲟⲩϫ ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉϫⲱⲃ ϩⲁ ⲡϩⲱⲃ ⲛⲧⲡⲁϣⲉ ⲛⲧλίμνη ⲛⲉϩⲟⲟⲩ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ
r.6    ⲙⲡⲁⲱⲛϩ ϣⲁ [ⲉ]ⲛⲉϩ ⲉⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲓⲱⲣⲕ ⲙⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ [ⲡ]παντοκράτωρ ⲙⲛ ⲧκαθολικός ⲛἐκκλησία
r.7    ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲙⲡⲉθρόνος ⲙⲡⲉⲛⲉⲓⲱⲧ ⲙⲁⲣⲕⲟⲥ ⲡεὐαγγελιστής ϫⲉ ⲛⲛⲓⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡⲓϩⲱⲃ ϣⲁ ⲉⲛⲉϩ
r.8    ⲉⲟⲩⲉⲓϣ ⲉⲓϣⲁⲛⲟⲩⲱϣ δέ ⲉⲉⲓ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲧⲡⲁ … ϣⲉ ⲙⲡⲓⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲉⲣⲏⲙⲓ[ⲁⲥ] πρῶτον μέν ⲛⲛⲉⲓὠφελεῖσθαι
r.9    ⲛⲗⲁⲁⲩ ἀλλά ⲉⲓⲉϭⲱ ϩⲁ ⲡἀφορισμός ⲙⲡⲁ[ⲁ]ⲛⲁϣ ⲙⲛ ⲡἔγκλημα ⲛⲧⲙⲧⲣⲉϥⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲟⲩϫ
r.10   δεύτερον δέ ⲧⲁⲧⲓ ϩⲁ ⲡⲉπρόστιμον ⲛⲧπαράβασις ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲟⲩ ⲛὁλοκόττινος ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲧⲉⲡⲓχαρτίον ϭⲱ ⲉⲃⲥⲙⲟⲟⲛⲧ
r.11   ϩⲛ ⲙⲁ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲩⲛⲁἐμφανίζειν ⲙⲟⲃ ⲛϩⲏⲧϥ εἴτε ἀρχή εἴτε ἐξουσία ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲥⲟⲛ ⲓⲥⲁⲕ
r.12   ⲡⲛⲧⲁⲃϣⲏⲣⲡⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν ⲉⲧⲓἀποταγή πρός ⲧϩⲉ ⲉⲥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲓⲕⲱⲣϣ ϩⲛⲕⲉⲥⲛⲏⲟⲩ ⲁⲩⲉⲣⲙⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ … μηνὶ Παχὼν α ἰνδικτίωνος ιε.
r.13   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲁⲡⲟⲗⲗⲱ ⲡϣⲉ ⲁⲃⲣⲁϩⲁⲙ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲁⲡⲉⲛ … ⲉⲕ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲉⲧⲣⲉ
r.14   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ … ⲁ … ⲏ ⲡϣⲉ ⲛⲡⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲓⲟⲥ ⲧⲁⲩⲣⲓⲛⲉ ⲡⲣⲱⲙ ⲧⲁⲡⲟϣ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲛⲙⲛⲧⲣⲉ ⲧⲓἀποταγή ⲧⲁⲓ … ⲛⲧⲉμέρος ⲃ … ⲛⲙⲟⲥ
r.15   σημεῖον ⲗⲁⲥⲁⲣⲟⲥ ⲥⲉⲛⲉⲥⲗⲁ πρωτοκωμήτης ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲁⲡⲉ ⲗⲁⲥⲁⲣⲟⲥ ⲡⲣⲱⲙ ⲥⲉⲛⲉⲥⲗⲁ κατά εὐκαιρία ⲛⲧⲁⲓⲉⲓ ⲉϫⲱ ⲡϣⲏⲓ ⲛⲧⲛⲟⲩⲧ
r.16   ϩⲁ ⲧἐπιτήρησις ⲛⲁⲡⲁ ⲫⲟⲓⲃⲁⲙⲱⲛ ⲡⲁⲧἀπόκρισις ⲁⲉⲓⲥⲁⲕ ⲕⲟⲣϣⲧ ⲁⲓⲉⲣⲙⲧⲣⲉ ⲉⲧⲓἀποταγή πρός ⲧϩⲉ ⲉⲥⲥⲏϩ ⲙⲟⲥ
r.17   ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲩⲟϣⲥ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲧⲏⲣⲥ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲅⲉⲟⲣⲅⲓⲁ ⲡϣ ⲛⲡⲙⲁⲕⲁⲣⲓⲟⲥ ⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲁⲃⲕⲟⲣϣⲧ ⲁⲓⲥϩⲁⲓ ϩⲁⲣⲟⲃ ⲛⲧⲁϭⲓϫ ϫⲉ ⲙⲉⲃνοεῖν
r.18   ⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ καλώς
r.19   ⲧἀποταγή ⲛⲓⲥⲁⲕ … ⲡⲁⲡⲉϫⲛⲁϩ ϩⲁ ⲧ[ⲡⲁϣⲉ] ⲛⲧλίμνη

[TRANSLATION]
1     I, brother Isaak, the monk of the place of Apa Apollo, write to the administration of the monastery of the place of Apa Apollo, through the God-loving holy father Apa Daniel the archimandrite,
2     and the father [of the place], saying: Since two debts were upon me, so that, being at a loss how to manage them both, I appealed to certain other great trustworthy brethren of the monastery, and they appealed to your fatherhood on my behalf, and your goodness
3     helped me, you taking on one of them upon me, which is the share of the lake; and you took my brother Jeremias, you assigning it to him
4     so that it might be deducted on account of their public dues; and now I renounce my share in the lake, in accordance with the way I have set it down.
5     The great brethren appealed to your fatherhood, and your goodness helped me; and now neither shall the place sue with [your] fatherhood, nor shall Jeremias either, who was cast as overseer over the work of the share of the lake, all the days
6     of my life forever, ever; I swear by God the Almighty and the catholic Church
7     and the salvation of the throne of our father Mark the evangelist that I will not go back on this matter forever,
8     ever; but if I do wish to go back to the … share of this place of Jeremias, first of all I shall not profit
9     anything, but I shall remain under the ban of the curse and the charge of swearing falsely,
10    and second I shall pay as the penalty of transgression nine holokottinos, and this document shall remain established
11    in every place where it shall be produced, whether in office or in authority. I, brother Isaak,
12    the one who has had this written before me, agree to this renunciation in accordance with the way it is written; and I have summoned other brethren, and they have witnessed to it … in the month Pachon 1 of the 15th indiction.
13    I, Apollo son of Abraham, and Pap… too, I give my witness.
14    I, …, son of the blessed Taurine, the man of the district, I give my witness; this renunciation, this … of the … 2 share … to it.
15    Sign of Lazaros son of Senesla, the head-man of the village. I, Pape Lazaros, the man of Senesla, according to the occasion when I came over against the well of the …,
16    under the supervision of Apa Phoibammon my respondent, Isaak summoned me, and I witnessed to the renunciation in accordance with the way it is written.
17    and we were all summoned over it. I, Georgia, the son of the blessed Mine, …summoned me, I wrote for him with my hand, for they do not understand
18    to write properly.
19    The renunciation of Isaak … Pape son of …nah for the [share] of the lake.
