[META]
id:       P.MON.APOLLO 1.24
label:    P.MON.APOLLO 1.24
name:     Contract — Bawit
genre:    contracts
date:     701 CE – 800 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Bawit
held:     St. Petersburg
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Bawit (701 CE – 800 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Land — Proestos
tm:       85814
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.mon.apollo;1;24
lat:      27.532343
lon:      30.72925

[GREEK]
r.1    ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ⲧκοινότης ⲛⲡἐποίκιον ⲡⲱⲣⲁϩⲏⲩ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲓⲥⲓⲧⲣⲉ ⲡἱερεύς ⲡϣⲉ ⲛⲃⲉⲓⲕⲧⲱⲣ
r.2    ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲉ ⲡδιάκονος ⲙⲛ ⲁⲛⲟⲩⲫ πρεσβύτερος ⲙⲛ ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲡϣ ⲛⲡμακάριος ⲫⲓⲃ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲥⲉⲡⲉ ⲛⲡἐποίκιον
r.3    ϩⲓ ⲟⲩⲥⲟⲡ ⲉⲛⲥϩⲁⲓ ⲛⲯⲁϩ ⲁⲑⲁⲛⲁⲥⲉ [ⲡ]προεστώς ⲛⲡμοναστήριον ⲛⲁⲡⲁ [ⲁⲡ]ⲟⲗⲗⲱ ϫⲉ ἐπειδή ⲛⲧⲁⲛπείθειν ⲛⲉⲙⲁⲕ
r.4    ⲁⲛⲧⲓ ⲛⲁⲕ ⲛϣⲟⲙⲧⲉ ⲛⲥⲓⲧⲓⲱϩⲉ ϩⲉⲣⲉ ⲉⲛⲁⲛⲟⲟⲩ ⲙⲛ ϫⲟⲩⲧⲏ ⲛⲥⲓⲧⲓⲱϩⲉ ⲙⲟⲛⲉ ϩⲛ ⲧⲥⲱϣⲉ
r.5    ⲛⲡⲉⲛἐποίκιον ⲧⲉⲛⲙⲁϩⲕ ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛⲡⲃⲁ ⲛⲡμοναστήριον τοῦτʼ ἐστὶν χόρτου ἄρουραι γ καὶ κατανομῆς ἄρουραι κεⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ
r.6    ⲧⲉⲛὁμολογεῖν ϫⲉ ⲁⲛϫⲓ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲁⲛπληροῦν ⲛⲧⲟⲟⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ ⲛⲧⲉⲛτιμή πρός ⲧϩⲏ ⲛⲧⲁⲛⲡⲱⲗϭ
r.7    ⲛⲉⲙ ⲛⲛⲉⲣⲏⲟⲩ ⲛⲙⲟⲥ ⲉⲇⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ ⲡⲉ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ ὁλοκόττινος παρά ⲟⲩⲡⲁϣ τριμήσιον γίνεται χρυσοῦ νομίσματα α 𐅵 γ ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ οὖν ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲟ ⲛⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉδιοικεῖν
r.8    ⲛⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲛϩⲉ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲛⲉⲟⲩⲱϣ ⲉⲩⲱⲣϫ οὖν ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲉⲙⲛⲧⲓⲱⲧ ⲁⲛⲥⲩⲙⲓⲛ ⲧⲓἀσφάλεια ⲛⲏⲧⲛ ⲉⲛστοιχεῖν ⲉⲣⲟⲥ
r.9    ⲉⲛⲱⲣⲕ ⲛⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ παντοκράτωρ ⲙⲛ ⲡⲉⲩϫⲁⲓ ⲛⲉⲧἄρχειν ⲉϫⲱⲛ ⲧⲉⲣⲉⲛⲣⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ πρός ⲧϭⲟⲙ ⲛⲧⲓἀσφάλεια
r.10   ἐγράφη μηνὶ Τῦβι κα ἰνδικτίωνος ια ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲉⲓⲥⲓⲇⲣⲉ ἱερεύς σημεῖον ⲡⲉⲧⲣⲉ διάκονος στοιχεῖν σημεῖον ⲁⲛⲟⲩⲫ πρεσβύτερος ⲧⲓστοιχεῖν σημεῖον ϣⲉⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲫⲓⲃ στοιχεῖν
r.11   ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲅⲉⲛⲛⲁⲧⲉ ⲡϣⲉ ⲛⲁⲛⲟⲡ ⲡⲣⲟⲙ ⲡⲗⲏⲧⲉⲙ ϩⲉⲛ ⲡⲧⲟϣ ⲕⲱⲥ ⲧⲓⲟ ⲙⲙⲉⲧⲣⲉ ⲡⲓχάρτης ⲛⲧⲁ … ⲥⲱⲧⲉⲙ
r.12   ϩⲓⲧⲉⲛ ⲡⲉⲧⲥⲙⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲙⲙⲟϥ ἐγὼ Μηνᾶ γραμματεὺς γράφω καὶ μαρτυρῶ.
r.13   ἀσφάλεια γενομένη παρὰ Ἰσιτρε [καὶ τῶν] ἄλλων τοῦ ἐποικίου Πουραηυ
r.14   ὑπὲρ τιμῆς χόρτου κατανομῆς ἰν[δικτίωνος] ια.

[TRANSLATION]
1     We, the community of the hamlet of Pouraheu, by us — I, Isitre the priest, the son of Beiktor,
2     and Petre the deacon and Anouph the presbyter and Shenoute the son of the late Phib and the rest of the hamlet,
3     all together, write to Psah Athanase [the] superior of the monastery of Apa [Ap]ollo, that: since we agreed with you
4     in exchange for you (concerning) the three good arouras of farm-land at three (?) and twenty-eight arouras of farm-land remaining in the field
5     of our hamlet, which we measured out to you for the share of the monastery — that is, of fodder, arouras 3, and of pasture, arouras 25 — now
6     we acknowledge that we have received and been paid by you the price according to the manner in which we agreed
7     with one another about it. And this is two solidi less a third of a tremis, total, of gold, coins 1 ½ 3; now therefore you are the owner and you shall administer
8     them in whatever manner you wish. So that this may be secure, we have drawn up this security for you, that we may abide by it,
9     swearing by God the Almighty and by the safety of those who rule over us, that we shall watch over it for you according to the force of this security.
10    Written in the month Tybi 21 of the 11th indiction. I, Isidre the priest, the sign (of the cross). Petre the deacon, "I consent," the sign. Anouph the presbyter, "I consent," the sign. Shenoute son of Phib, "I consent."
11    I, Gennate the son of Anop, the man of Pletem in the district of Kos, bear witness to this document, having … heard
12    through the one who drew it up. I, Menas the scribe, write and bear witness.
13    Security made by Isitre [and the] others of the hamlet of Pouraheu
14    concerning the price of fodder of pasture, of the 11th in[diction].
