[META]
id:       P.MUENCH 1.8
label:    P.MUENCH 1.8
name:     Contract — Syene
genre:    contracts
date:     540 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Syene (540 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schenkung — Testament — verschiedene Räume — Beisetzung — Strafgeld
tm:       15316
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.muench;1;8
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    … α πολλάκις ὑγιεστο …
r.2    … οκια τὸν κοινὸν πᾶσιν βίον …
r.3    … [ ἐκτελ]έσαι τὴν προσφοράν μου ω …
r.4    ἀδήλου δὴ οὔσης τῆς ιμ …
r.5    … μᾶλλον δὲ καὶ τη …
r.6    μέχρι τῆς δεῦρο υἱοῦ μου γνησίου καὶ πιστικοῦ τυγχάνοντος ἀναπαύσεως καὶ
r.7    θαλπούσης καὶ ἐπιμελουμένης μου καὶ ἐν οὐδενὶ πώποτε λυπησάσης με
r.8    ἔργῳ καὶ λόγῳ, ἔδοξεν ἐμοὶ ἕλεσθαί σε ὡς πιστικὸν δυνάμενον τὰς
r.9    φροντίδας τῆς προσφορᾶς μου καὶ τὰ ἀνθρωποπρεπῆ μου νόμιμα ἐκτελέσ[αι]
r.10   μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν τελευτὴν μετὰ πάσης σπουδῆς καὶ ἐπιεικείας. ὅθεν εἰς ταύτην
r.11   ἐλήλυθα τὴν ὁμολογίαν τύπους ἔχουσαν τῆς παραχωρήσεως νοοῦσα καὶ φρ[ονοῦσα]
r.12   καὶ λογισμοῦ σῶς οὖσα καὶ ἐρ ρωμένην ἔχουσα τὴν διάνοιαν, διʼ ἧς ὁμολογῶ [ἐκουσίᾳ]
r.13   καὶ ἀμετανοήτῳ γνώμῃ καὶ ἀδόλῳ προαιρέσει καὶ εἰλικρινεῖ συνειδήσει καὶ ἀμ[ετατρέπτῳ]
r.14   λογισμῷ ἑκούσα καὶ πεπεισμένη ἄνευ δόλου καὶ βίας καὶ ἀπάτης καὶ ἀνάγκη[ς] δεδ[ωκέναι]
r.15   σοὶ σήμερον τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος τῆς κέλλας μου τῆς λεγομένης κέλλας Παταροῦτος
r.16   καὶ τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος τοῦ συμποσίου ἐπάνω τῆς αὐτῆς κέλλας καὶ τὸ ἥμισυ μέρος τοῦ ἀέρος
r.17   ἐν τετάρτῃ στ[έ]γῃ ἐπάνω τοῦ ἀκουβίτου Ἀβρααμίου Παχυμίου πλησίον τῆς ἐμῆς
r.18   οἰκίας εἰς λόγον τῆς ὁσίας μου προσφορᾶς καὶ τὰ ἀνθρωποπρεπῆ μου νόμιμα
r.19   κατὰ τὴν ἐμὴν μετριοσύνην μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν τελευτήν τὴν δὲ αὐτὴν κέλλαν καὶ τὸ
r.20   ἐπάνω αὐτῆς συμπόσιον καὶ τὸν ἀέρα ἐν τετάρτῃ στέγῃ, κατηντηκὸς εἰς ἐμὲ καὶ
r.21   εἰς τὸν πατέρα σου ἀπὸ δικαίας ἀγορασίας παρὰ Τηρουτήρου, τὴν δὲ αὐτὴν
r.22   κέλλαν διακειμένην ἐπὶ τὴν Συήνην καὶ περὶ τὸ νότινον μέρος τοῦ φρουρίου
r.23   καὶ περὶ λαύραν τῆς παρεμβολῆς καλουμένην τῶν σκυτέων, τὸ δὲ ἄλλο ἥμισυ
r.24   μέρος τῶν προδεδηλωμένων τόπων ἀνήκει τῷ πατρί σου, πρὸς τῷ σὲ τὸ αὐτὸ
r.25   ἥμισυ μέρος τῶν προδεδηλωμένων τόπων μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν τελευτὴν κυριεύειν
r.26   καὶ δεσπόζειν καὶ ἐξουσιάζειν καὶ ἐπιτελεῖν τὰ περὶ αὐτῶν τρόπῳ ᾧ ἐὰν αἱρῇ ἀκωλύτως
r.27   καὶ ἀνεμποδίστως καὶ ἐπιτελέσαι τὰ ὁσίας μου προσφορᾶς πρὸς τὴν ἐμὴν
r.28   μετριοσύνην ἰδίᾳ σου ἀγαθῇ πίστει, καὶ μετὰ τὴν ἐμὴν τελευτὴν ἐξεῖναί σοι
r.29   εἰσελθεῖν καὶ κληρονομῆσαι μετὰ τῶν ἄλλων σου ἀδελφῶν ἐξ ἰσομοιρίας ἅπαντα
r.30   τὰ καταλειφθησόμενα παρʼ ἐμοῦ καὶ παρὰ τοῦ πατρός σου ἄνευ πάσης πλεονεξίας, καὶ μηδενὸς τῶν ἀδελφῶν σου
r.31   δυνησομένου ἐπελεύσεσθαί σε ἢ ἀντιποιεῖσθαι περὶ τούτου ἐν μηδενὶ καιρῷ κατὰ μηδένα
r.32   τρόπον ἀφορμῇ μηδεμιᾷ, μηδὲ ἐμοῦ αὐτῆς περιούσης δυνησομένης μεταμεληθῆναι καὶ ἕτερον γράμμα θέσθαι ἀντι[κεί]μενον εἰς κατ[ά]λυσιν τούτ[ο]υ τοῦ ἀ[π]οχαρίσματος,
r.33   ἀλλὰ εἶναι αὐτὸ βέβαιον καὶ ἀρ ραγὲς καὶ ἀσάλευτον ἐπὶ τὸ διηνεκές. εἰ δὲ
r.34   βουληθείην κατά τινα τρόπον μεταμεληθῆναι ἤγουν παρασαλεῦσαι τὰ ἐγγεγραμμένα διὰ δόλου,
r.35   ἐξεῖναί μοι παρασχεῖν ὑπὲρ συνθηκῶν παραβάσεως χρυσοῦ νομίσματα δέκα ὀκτὼ
r.36   μετὰ καὶ τοῦ ἐμὲ μηδὲν ἰσχύειν κατὰ τούτου τοῦ ἀποχαρίσματος ἀλλὰ ἐμμένειν αὐτῷ ἐπὶ τὸ διηνεκ[ές.]
r.37   εἰς δὲ μείζονά σου ἀσφάλειαν ἐπωμοσάμην τόν τε παντοκράτορα θεὸν καὶ τὴν ἁγίαν καὶ
r.38   ὁμοούσιον τριάδα τῶν χριστιανῶν ἑτοίμως ἔχειν με στέρξαι καὶ ἐμμεῖναι
r.39   πάντα τὰ προγεγραμμένα καὶ μὴ παρασαλεῦσαι ἢ παραβῆναι αὐτὰ διὰ τὸ
r.40   ἑκοῦσαν καὶ πεπεισμένην ἐληλυθέναι εἰς τοῦτο τὸ ἀποχάρισμα κύριον καὶ βέβαιον
r.41   ἐφʼ ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ὑπογράφοντος, καὶ ἐπερωτηθεῖσα ὡμολόγησα.
r.42   Αὐρηλία Μαρία Δίου μητρὸς Ταεὶτ χηρεύουσα ἡ προκειμένη ἐθέμεθα
r.43   τὴν ὁμολογίαν καὶ στοιχεῖ μοι πάντα [τὰ] ἐγγεγραμμένα ὡς πρόκειται.
r.44   Φλαύιος Ἰωάννης Ἀβρααμίου κεντυρίων λεγεῶνος Συήνης ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα
r.45   ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς γράμματα μὴ εἰδυίης.
r.46   Φλαύιος Βασιλείδης Δίου στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ .
r.47   Φλαύιος Παπνοῦθις Δίου στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.48   Φλαύιος Εὐλόγιος Ἀλλάμωνος κεντυρίων λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.49   Φλαύιος Ἰωσὴφ Ἀλλάμωνος ὀρδδινάριος αὐγουστάλιος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ .
r.50   Φλαύιος Δίδυμος Σιλβανοῦ ἀπὸ βικαρίων λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ .
r.51   Ἄπα Δῖος Ἀβραὰμ διάκονος ἐκκλησίας Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.52   Αὐρήλιος Μηνᾶς Ἰωάννου ἀπὸ Ὄμβων μαρτυρῶ.
r.53   Φλαύιος Γεώργιος Μουσαίου ἀδιούτωρ λεγεῶνος Συήνης ἐσωμάτισα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … a often in health …
2     … -okia the life common to all …
3     … [to fulf]il my offering o …
4     it being uncertain indeed the im …
5     … but rather also te …
6     up to the present, my son being genuine and faithful, my repose and
7     cherishing and caring for me and at no time grieving me in any way
8     in deed or word, it seemed good to me to choose you as faithful, able to fulfil
9     the cares of my offering and my customary funerary rites
10    after my death with all diligence and forbearance. Whence to this
11    agreement I have come, having the forms of the cession, understanding and th[inking]
12    and being sound of reasoning and having a firm mind, through which I acknowledge, [of free]
13    and unrepentant will and guileless purpose and sincere conscience and un[alterable]
14    reasoning, willing and persuaded, without deceit and force and trickery and compulsion, that I have giv[en]
15    you today the half share of my cell, the so-called cell of Patarous,
16    and the half share of the dining-room above the same cell, and the half share of the air-space
17    on the fourth floor above the bed-chamber of Abraamios son of Pachymios, near my
18    house, on account of my holy offering and my customary funerary rites
19    according to my modest means after my death; the same cell and the
20    dining-room above it and the air-space on the fourth floor, having come to me and
21    to your father from a lawful purchase from Teroutes, the same
22    cell being situated in Syene and around the southern part of the fort
23    and around the lane of the garrison called "of the leather-workers," and the other half
24    share of the aforedeclared places belongs to your father, on condition that you, over the same
25    half share of the aforedeclared places, after my death, are owner
26    and master and have authority and may carry out matters concerning them in whatever manner you choose, unhindered
27    and unimpeded, and may carry out (the matters) of my holy offering according to my
28    modest means in your own good faith; and after my death it shall be permitted you
29    to enter and inherit, along with your other brothers in equal shares, all
30    that shall be left by me and by your father, without any greed; and none of your brothers
31    being able to come against you or lay claim about this at any time in any
32    manner on any pretext, nor I myself while surviving being able to repent and to set down another document opposing (it) for the dissolution of this gift of grace,
33    but it being secure and unbroken and unshaken perpetually. But if I
34    should wish in some manner to repent or to disturb what is written through deceit,
35    it shall be permitted me to furnish on account of breach of the agreement eighteen gold solidi,
36    with also my having no force against this gift of grace, but (my) abiding by it perpetually.
37    And for your greater security I have sworn by both God the Almighty and the holy and
38    consubstantial Trinity of the Christians that I am ready to be content with and to abide by
39    all the aforewritten and not to disturb or transgress them, because of
40    (my) willing and persuaded coming to this gift of grace, valid and secure,
41    upon the subscription of the one subscribing on my behalf, and being formally questioned I acknowledged.
42    I, Aurelia Maria daughter of Dios, her mother being Taeit, a widow, the aforesaid, have set down
43    the agreement, and everything written is satisfactory to me as is set forth.
44    I, Flavius John son of Abraamios, centurion of the legion of Syene, having been requested, wrote
45    on her behalf, she not knowing letters.
46    I, Flavius Basileides son of Dios, soldier of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
47    I, Flavius Papnouthis son of Dios, soldier of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
48    I, Flavius Eulogios son of Allamon, centurion of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
49    I, Flavius Joseph son of Allamon, ordinarius augustalis of Syene, bear witness.
50    I, Flavius Didymos son of Silvanus, former vicarius of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
51    I, Apa Dios son of Abraham, deacon of the church of Syene, bear witness.
52    I, Aurelius Menas son of John, from Ombos, bear witness.
53    I, Flavius Georgios son of Mousaios, adiutor of the legion of Syene, drew up (the document).
