[META]
id:       P.MUENCH 1.2
label:    P.MUENCH 1.2
name:     Documentary papyrus — Elephantine
genre:    documents
date:     578 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Elephantine
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Elephantine (578 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Bescheinigung — Eintragung — Matrikel — Soldat — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       15311
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.muench;1;2
lat:      24.09
lon:      32.889

[GREEK]
r.1    ὁ κοινὸς τῶν πρωτευόντων τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ [τ]ῶν στρατιωτῶν τοῦ φρουρίου Ἐλεφαντίνης διὰ τῶν ἑξῆς
r.2    ὑπογράφειν εὑρισκομένων Φλαυίῳ Πατερμουθίῳ υἱῷ Δίου νεοστράτῳ τείρονι τοῦ αὐτοῦ
r.3    ἡμετέρου Ἐλεφαντίνης χαίρειν. ἐδεξάμεθα τὴν σὴν προβατορίαν μεθʼ ἑτέ[ρ]ων ὀνομάτων
r.4    ἐπὶ τῆς ἐξουσίας τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν Φλαυίου Μαριανοῦ Μιχαηλίου Γαβριηλίου Ἰωάννου Θεοδώρου
r.5    Γεωργίου Μαρκέλλου Ἰουλιανοῦ Θεοδώρου Ἰουλιανοῦ τοῦ τὰ πάντα ὑπερφυεστάτου στρατηλάτου
r.6    καὶ πανευφήμου πραιφέκτου Ἰουστινιανῶν σὺν θεῷ δουκὸς καὶ ἀγουσταλί[ο]υ τῆς Θηβαίων
r.7    χώρας τὴν παρακελευομένην ἡμῖν καταταγῆναι τὴν σὴν προσηγορίαν εἰς τὴν ἡμετέραν
r.8    μάτρικα ἀπὸ καλανδῶν Ἰανουαρίου τῆς παρούσης δωδεκάτης ἐπινε[μ]ήσεως
r.9    βασιλείας τοῦ θειοτάτου καὶ εὐσεβεστάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότου Φλαυίου Ἰουστίνου τοῦ αἰωνίου Αὐγ[ούσ]του
r.10   Αὐτοκράτορος καὶ μεγίστου εὐεργέτου ἔτους τρεισκαιδεκάτου καὶ Φλαυίου Τιβερίου Νέου Κωσταντίνου
r.11   τοῦ φιλανθρωποτάτου καὶ εὐτυχεστάτου τρισμεγίστου εὐεργέτου Καίσαρος ἔτους τετάρτου
r.12   τοῖς μετὰ τὴν δευτέραν ὑπατείαν τοῦ α[ὐ]τοῦ γαληνοτάτου ἡμῶν δεσπότο[υ] ἔτους δεκάτου. καὶ
r.13   ἡμεῖς ἔχοντες τὸν φόβον τῆς ἀκαταφρονήτου τῆς ὑμετέρας ἐνδόξου ὑπεροχῆς ἕτοιμοί
r.14   ἐσμεν πᾶσι τοῖς προστεταγμένοις ἡμ[ῖ]ν τὸ ἱκανὸν ποιεῖν καὶ εἰς σὴν ἀμερ[ι]μνίαν ταύτην σοι
r.15   πεποιήμεθα τὴν δηλωτικὴν ἔγγραφον ἀπόδειξιν τῆς προβατορίας τῆς σῆς στρατείας
r.16   κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαίαν ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαύιοι Δῖος Παμινίου σὺν θεῷ πριμικήριος καὶ Γεώργιος Δίου καὶ
r.17   Πελάγιος Πασμῆτος καὶ Ἰωάννης Σαραπάμωνος καὶ Μακάριος Ἰσακίου καὶ Πάων Θεοφάνου καὶ
r.18   Δῖος Πα[ο]υῶτος καὶ Δῖος Σερήνου ὀρδινάριοι καὶ οἱ λοιποὶ πρίορες ἀριθμοῦ Ἐλεφαντίνης οἱ προκείμενοι
r.19   ἐθέμεθα σοὶ ταύτην τὴν ἔγγραφον ἀποχὴν τῆς προβατορίας τῆς σῆς στρατείας καὶ στοιχεῖ ἡμῖν πάντα
r.20   τὰ ἐν αὐτῇ γεγραμμένα ὡς πρόκειται. Φλαύιος Μακάριος Ἰσακίου ὀρδινάριος τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἀριθμοῦ παρακληθεὶς καὶ ἐπιτραπεὶς
r.21   ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν γράμματα μὴ εἰδότων . bene valeas .
r.22   διʼ ἐμοῦ Φλαυίου Μακαρίου Ἰσακίου ὀρδιναρίου καὶ ἀδιούτορος τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἀριθμοῦ ἐγράφη . bene valeas .
r.23   ἀποχὴ προβατο[ρ]ίας τῆς στρατείας Πατερμουθί[ου] Δίου νεοστράτου τείρονος τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ Ἐλεφαντίνης.

[TRANSLATION]
1     The collective body of the leading men of the unit [o]f the soldiers of the garrison of Elephantine, through those who are found
2     subscribing below, to Flavius Patermouthios son of Dios, new-recruited recruit of the same
3     our garrison of Elephantine, greeting. We have received your letter of appointment together with other[ ] names
4     under the authority of our lord Flavius Marianus Michaelius Gabrielius John Theodore
5     George Marcellus Julianus Theodore Julianus, the in-all-things most extraordinary general
6     and all-praiseworthy prefect of the Justinianic forces, by God's grace duke and augustalis of the Thebans'
7     province, ordering us that your designation be enrolled in our
8     register from the calends of January of the present twelfth indi[c]tion
9     of the reign of our most divine and most pious master Flavius Justin the eternal Aug[us]tus
10    Imperator and greatest benefactor, the thirteenth year, and of Flavius Tiberius the New Constantine
11    the most benevolent and most fortunate thrice-greatest benefactor Caesar, the fourth year,
12    in the tenth year after the second consulship of the same our most serene master. And
13    we, having the fear of the not-to-be-despised glorious eminence of you, are ready
14    to do what is sufficient in all things commanded to us, and for your freedom from care we have made
15    for you this declaratory written proof of the appointment of your military service,
16    valid and secure as stated above. We, Flavii: Dios son of Paminios, by God's grace primicerius, and George son of Dios, and
17    Pelagios son of Pasmes, and John son of Sarapamon, and Makarios son of Isakios, and Paon son of Theophanes, and
18    Dios son of Pa[o]uos, and Dios son of Serenos, ordinarii, and the rest of the priores of the unit of Elephantine, the aforesaid,
19    have established for you this written receipt of the appointment of your military service, and there is in agreement with us all
20    the things written in it as stated above. I, Flavius Makarios son of Isakios, ordinarius of the same unit, having been requested and entrusted,
21    wrote on their behalf, they not knowing letters. May you fare well.
22    Through me, Flavius Makarios son of Isakios, ordinarius and adiutor of the same unit, it was written. May you fare well.
23    Receipt of the appointment of the military service of Patermouthi[us] son of Dios, new-recruited recruit of the unit of Elephantine.
