[META]
id:       P.MUENCH 1.6
label:    P.MUENCH 1.6
name:     Documentary papyrus — Syene ?
genre:    documents
date:     583 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene ?
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Syene ? (583 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Urteil — Erbschaftstreit — Geld — Eid
tm:       15314
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.muench;1;6
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους πρώτου Πα[ῦνι ][τρ]ει[σ]καιδεκάτῃ δ[ευ]τέρας ἰνδικτίονος
r.2    Φλαύιος Μᾶρκος σχολαστικὸς ἔκρινα τὰ ὑποτεταγμένα …
r.3    Ἰωάννης ὁ προμνημονευ …
r.4    καὶ ἡ τούτου μήτηρ ἀπὸ το …
r.5    Συήνης
r.6    πράγματα ἡ δὲ αν …
r.7    σκοπεῖν δ …
r.8    καὶ προδια …
r.9    ἐδίδαξεν τὰ πράγματα περὶ ὧ[ν ἡ] κίνησις κοινὰ εἶναι αὐτῇ τε
r.10   καὶ τῷ μακαριωτάτῳ αὐτῆς ἀνδρί, τοῖς γὰρ κοινοῖς πόνοις προσκτηθῆναι
r.11   αὐτοῖς ὅσα καὶ προσεκτήθη. πλὴν καὶ τούτων οὕτως ὄντων
r.12   κατὰ κοινὴν γνώμην μεσιτείᾳ τινῶν συνελθεῖν αὐτοὺς καὶ τὰ
r.13   πράγματα εἰς τρία διαιρεθῆναι μέρη καὶ αὐτὴν μὲν λαβεῖν
r.14   τρίτον μέρος, Ἰωάννην δὲ τὸν εἰρημένον αὐτῆς [υἱὸν τ]ρίτον
r.15   μέρος καὶ Κακὸ τὴν αὐτῆς θυγατέρα τρίτον μέρος, ὅρκου
r.16   ἐπακτοῦ καταβληθέντος παρʼ [αὐ]τῆς περὶ τοῦ ὅτι οὐδὲν ἀπεκρύψατο.
r.17   μετὰ δὲ τὴν διαίρεσι[ν] τῶν πραγμάτων Ἰωάννην τὸν αὐτῆς υἱὸν
r.18   προσελθεῖν Μηνᾷ τῷ λαμπροτάτῳ καὶ καθωσιωμένῳ ἀπὸ τριβούνων
r.19   καὶ τοποτηρητῇ τοῦ λιμίτου καὶ ἐπαγγείλασθαι αὐτῷ ἀντὶ τῆς
r.20   μητρὸς συνκληρονόμον αὐτὸν ποιῆσαι καὶ δοῦναι αὐτῷ τὸ τρίτον
r.21   μέρος τῶν ἀπὸ τοῦ πατρὸς καταλειφθέντων, εἰ ἀποστείλῃ τινὰ
r.22   τὸν ὀφείλοντα τὰ πράγματα ἀποσπάσαι ἐκ τῆς αὐτοῦ μητρός.
r.23   Μηνᾶν δὲ τὸν λαμπρότατον δεξάμενον τὰς ἐπαγγελίας παρὰ
r.24   Ἰωάννου τοῦ ἑαυτῆς υἱοῦ πέμψαι εἰς τῷ εἰρημένῳ φρουρίῳ
r.25   Κωνστάντιν τὸν καθωσιωμένον καὶ ἀπαιτῆσαι αὐτὴν μετὰ
r.26   ἐκβιβασμῶν νομίσματα τριάκοντα τρία ὡς τῆς πάσης
r.27   ὑποστάσεως συντιμηθείσης εἰς νομίσματα ἑκατόν , ὥστε αὐτὴν
r.28   ἀλλοτριωθῆναι παντελῶς τῶν εἰρημένων πραγμάτων καίτοι κοινῶν
r.29   αὐτῇ ὄντων πρὸς τὸν ἄνδρα. Ἰωάννης δὲ ὁ ταύτης παῖς, ἀκηκοὼς
r.30   τῶν εἰρημένων παρὰ Ταπίας τῆς αὐτοῦ μητρός, συνέθετο μὲν τῷ ὅτι
r.31   κατὰ κοινὴν γνώμην μεσιτείᾳ τινῶν διενείμαντο πρὸς ἑαυτοὺς
r.32   τὰ πράγματα ἀνὰ τὸ τρίτον καὶ ὅτι ὅρκος περὶ συνειδήσεως παρʼ αὐτῆς
r.33   καταβέβληται, εὑρηκέναι δὲ αὐτὴν μετὰ τὸν ὅρκον ἓν καὶ δεύτερον
r.34   εἶδος χαλκωμάτων ἀποκρύψασαν καὶ ὕστερον ἐνεγκοῦσαν εἰς μέσον,
r.35   ὥστε πρόφασιν δοθῆναι τοῦ μὴ χρῆναι καταπιστεῦσαι αὐτῇ, καὶ ἐντεῦθεν
r.36   προσελθεῖν Μηνᾷ τῷ λαμπροτάτῳ καὶ καθωσιωμένῳ τοποτηρητῇ
r.37   τότε ὄντι τοῦ λιμίτου καὶ συντάξασθαι αὐτῷ τὴν τρίτην μοῖραν
r.38   τῶν καταλειφθέντων πραγμάτων, καὶ ἐκεῖνον πέμψαι καὶ ἀπαιτῆσαι
r.39   αὐτὴν τὸ παρʼ αὐτῆς μνημονευθὲν χρυσίον· καὶ τούτῳ γὰρ τῷ
r.40   λόγῳ οὐδὲ ἀντειπεῖν ἔσχεν Ἰωάννης ὁ αὐτῆς υἱός, ἀλλὰ καὶ
r.41   ἀπραγμόνως συνέθετο. ἔλεγεν δὲ ἕτερα πάν[υ] πολλὰ πράγματα
r.42   ἔν τε ἱματίοις καὶ χαλκώμασιν καὶ γραμματείοις ἀποσυλῆσαι τὴν ἑαυτοῦ
r.43   μητέρα, καὶ ἐκεῖνα οὖν ἐξεδίκει ζητῶν ἀναλ[αβεῖν]. καὶ τὰ περὶ τούτου
r.44   πιστούμενος παρήγαγον Ἰ[ά]κκωβον υἱὸν Πραιποσίτου καὶ Κόμιτα
r.45   Ἁτρῆτος καὶ Ἰακὼβ Μακαρίου ἀπὸ Συήνης οὐδὲν ἕτερον λέγοντας
r.46   ἢ ὅτι εἴησαν ἀκηκοότες παρὰ πάντων τῶν ἀπὸ τοῦ κατʼ αὐτοὺς κάστρου,
r.47   ὅτι ἐν εὐπορίᾳ ἦν Ἰακὼβ ὁ μακαριώτατος πρὸς τὴν συνμετρίαν
r.48   τῶν καθʼ ἡμᾶς ἀνθρώπων. παρήγαγον δὲ καὶ Ἴσακον Κωνσταντίνου,
r.49   ὃς ἔλεγεν Ταπίαν τὴν ἐναγομένην τεθαρ ρηκέναι αὐτῷ, ὅτι βούλοιτο
r.50   μετενεγκεῖν τὰ πράγματα ἀπὸ τοῦ οἴκου αὐτῆς εἰς ἕτερον τόπον, καὶ ὅτι
r.51   διʼ αὐτοῦ τὰ πλεῖστα τῶν πραγμάτων μετεκομίσθη ἐν νυκτί. τούτων
r.52   μαρτυρηθέντων παρὰ Ἰσακίου ἐπελάβετο ἡ φεύγουσα τῆς κινήσεως
r.53   καὶ τῆς ἀντιστάσεως τοῦ ἀνδρός, λέγουσα συνηγορεῖν αὐτὸν μᾶλλον
r.54   ἢ μαρτυρεῖν καὶ τὸ ὅλον πρὸς τὸ κεχαρισμένον τῷ διώκοντι μέρει
r.55   διαπεπλάσθαι, ἔλεγεν δὲ κατὰ τὸν ἀληθῆ λόγον, ἡνίκα ἤκουεν μέλλειν
r.56   καταλαβεῖν ἄνθρωπον τοῦ λαμπροτάτου τοποτηρητοῦ ὀφείλοντα
r.57   αὐτῇ ἐπηρεάσαι ἐκ προσελεύσεως τοῦ αὐτῆς υἱοῦ, βουληθῆναι
r.58   ἐπιλαχόντα αὐτῇ πράγματα καὶ ἀποκεκλεισμένα ἔν τινι τόπῳ
r.59   ἐξενεγκεῖν τῆς οἰκίας καὶ ἀλλαχόσε μετακομίσαι, καὶ ἐκ ταύτης
r.60   τῆς ἀφορμῆς τὸν μάρτυρα καὶ τὸν ἑαυτῆς υἱὸν ταύτην αὐτῇ
r.61   τὴν πλοκὴν συνράψαι. καὶ ἐπὶ τούτοις ἀπεῖπον ταῖς οἰκείαις
r.62   δικαιολογίαις. ἐγὼ δὲ σκοπήσας τὰ ἑκατέρωθεν δικαιολογηθέντα
r.63   συνορῶ Ταπίαν τὴν ἐναγομένην ἐπʼ οὐδενὶ ἑτέρῳ εὐθύνεσθαι ἢ ἐπὶ τῷ
r.64   ὅρκον ἕτερον σωματικὸν καταβαλεῖν περὶ καθαρᾶς συνειδήσεως
r.65   καὶ περὶ τοῦ ὅτι οὐδὲν ἀπεσύλησεν ἢ ἀπεκρύψατο τῶν τοῦ ἀνδρὸς
r.66   πραγμάτων. τὰ γὰρ μαρτυρηθέντα παρὰ Ἰσακίου ἔδοξεν καὶ ἐμοὶ
r.67   πρὸς τὸ κεχαρισμένον λελέχθαι, καὶ τὰ παρʼ ἑνὸς δὲ μαρτυρούμενα
r.68   ὁ νόμος παντελῶς οὐ προσίεται. τὰ μέντοι δεικνύμενα ἴδια αὐτῇ διαφέρειν
r.69   πράγματα καὶ μάλιστα τ[ὰ] γυναικεῖα ἱμάτια ταῦτα [αὐτ]ὴν ἔχειν βεβαίως
r.70   καὶ ἀναφαιρέτως, μάλιστα, καθʼ ὃ παρέστησε, τ[ὰ] κεκινημένα. τὸ
r.71   προειρημένον χρυσίον ἀπῄτηται ὑπὲρ τῆς κατ[ὰ] κοινὴν γνώμην
r.72   περιελθούσης εἰς αὐτὴν μοίρας ἐκ τῶν καταλειφθέντω[ν] πραγμάτων.
r.73   πάντα δὲ λόγον αὐτῇ ἀκέραιον φυλαχθῆναι καθʼ ὧν νομίζει ἔχειν
r.74   ἑτέρων προσώπων περὶ τῆς λεγομένης αὐτῇ προστριβῆναι
r.75   ζημίας ἤτοι τοῦ χρυσίου εἰσπράξεως. Ἰωάννην δὲ τὸν αὐτῆς υἱὸν
r.76   μὴ ἐνέχεσθαι ὑπὲρ τούτου· παντὸς γὰρ ἀδικεῖσθαι νομίζοντός ἐστιν
r.77   τὸ προσελθεῖν ἄρχουσιν ἤτοι τοῖς τὸν τόπον ἐπέχουσι τῶν ἀρ[χ]όντω[ν,]
r.78   ἐκείνων δέ ἐστιν μετὰ διακρίσεως καὶ μὴ οὕτως χύδην κεχρῆσθαι
r.79   τοῖς πράγμασιν. διʼ ὃ τὸν μὲν υἱὸν ἠλευθέρωσα ταύτης τῆς ἐνοχῆς
r.80   οὐ τοσοῦτον κατʼ ἀκρίβειαν ὅσον διὰ φιλαγαθίαν, ἐφύλαξα δὲ αὐτῇ
r.81   πάντα λόγον ἀκέραιον κατὰ τῶν ἄλλων τῶν ζημιωσάντων αὐτήν,
r.82   ἐπὶ τῷ μέντοι ἐκ τοῦ ὡς εἰκὸς ἀναπραχθησομένου χρυσίου λαβεῖν
r.83   Ἰωάννην τὸν αὐτῆς υἱὸν τρίτον μέρος. ἐν δὲ τῷ μέλλειν τὴν παροῦσαν
r.84   κρίσιν ἐκδοῦναι διεβεβαιώσατο ὁ ἐνάγων προταθῆναι αὐτῷ παρὰ τῆς
r.85   μητρὸς λαβεῖν δώδεκα νομίσματα ὑπὲρ τελείας ἀπαλλαγῆς.
r.86   καὶ τῆς αὐτοῦ μητρὸς μὴ συνθεμένης τούτῳ τῷ λόγῳ, συνεφώνησ[αν]
r.87   πρὸς ἑαυτοὺς εἰδήσει μου ὥστε, εἰ τοῦτο δυνηθείη ὁ ἐνάγων
r.88   ἀποδεῖξαι νομίμως διὰ τριῶν μαρτύρων ἀξιοπίστων τῇ προτάσει
r.89   παρακολουθησάντων καὶ ἐνωμότως τοῦτο κατατιθεμένων,
r.90   παρασχεῖν αὐτῷ τὸ δεικνύμενον συμπεφωνῆσθαι. τὰ τοίνυν
r.91   δόξαντά μοι καλῶς ἔχειν ἐπαναγνοὺς τοῖς μέρεσιν ἐκδέδωκα .
r.92   Μᾶρκος σχολαστικὸς καθʼ ὁ συνείδον ἔκρινα .

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the first year, Pauni thirteenth, of the second indiction
2     I, Flavius Marcus, scholasticus, judged the matters appended …
3     John the aforementioned …
4     and his mother, from the …
5     of Syene
6     the affairs; and she …
7     to consider …
8     and beforehand …
9     she set forth the affairs concerning which the dispute is, (saying) that they are common to her
10    and to her most blessed husband, for by their common labors there had been acquired
11    for them all that was acquired. But, these things being so even thus,
12    by common consent, by the mediation of certain persons, they came together and the
13    affairs were divided into three parts, and that she herself took
14    a third part, and John her said son a third
15    part, and Kako her daughter a third part, an oath
16    of compurgation having been laid down by her that she had concealed nothing.
17    But after the division of the affairs, John her son
18    approached Menas, the most illustrious and devoted, of the tribunes
19    and deputy of the frontier, and undertook to him, in place of his
20    mother, to make him co-heir and to give him the third
21    part of what had been left by his father, if he should send someone
22    obliged to wrest the property from his mother.
23    And Menas the most illustrious, having received the undertakings from
24    John her son, sent to the said fort
25    Konstantios the devoted, and demanded from her, with
26    distraints, thirty-three solidi, as the whole
27    estate was valued together at one hundred solidi, so that she
28    was wholly alienated from the said affairs, although they were common
29    to her with her husband. But John her child, having heard
30    the things said by Tapia his mother, agreed indeed that
31    by common consent, by the mediation of certain persons, they had divided among themselves
32    the affairs by thirds, and that an oath concerning her conscience had been laid down
33    by her, but (said) that she had been found, after the oath, to have concealed one and a second
34    kind of bronze-ware, and afterwards to have brought it forward into the open,
35    so that occasion was given for not trusting her, and from there
36    he approached Menas the most illustrious and devoted, deputy
37    at that time of the frontier, and arranged with him the third share
38    of the property left behind, and (said) that he sent and demanded from
39    her the gold mentioned by her; and to this argument
40    John her son had nothing even to gainsay, but
41    untroubledly agreed. But he said that very many other things,
42    both in garments and in bronze-ware and in deeds, his own
43    mother had stripped him of, and these too he claimed, seeking to recover them. And, to confirm the matters concerning this,
44    I produced Jakkobos son of Praepositus and Komes
45    son of Hatres and Jacob son of Makarios from Syene, who said nothing other
46    than that they had heard from all those of the camp belonging to them,
47    that Jacob the most blessed was in affluence relative to the means
48    of the people among us. And I produced also Isak son of Konstantinos,
49    who said that Tapia the defendant had assured him that she wished
50    to transfer the affairs from her house to another place, and that
51    through him most of the affairs were moved by night. These things
52    being witnessed by Isakios, the defendant took hold of the motion
53    and of the opposition of her husband, saying that he was rather an advocate
54    than a witness, and that the whole had been fabricated to favor the prosecuting
55    party; and she said, according to the true account, that when she heard a man of the most illustrious deputy was about
56    to arrive, obliged
57    to harass her at the instigation of her son, she wished
58    to bring out of the house and convey elsewhere the affairs falling to her and shut up in a certain place,
59    and that
60    from this occasion the witness and her own son stitched up
61    this plot against her. And on these things they gave up their
62    pleas. And I, having examined what had been argued on both sides,
63    perceive that Tapia the defendant is liable to nothing other than to
64    lay down another bodily oath concerning a clear conscience
65    and that she stripped nor concealed nothing of her husband's
66    affairs. For the things witnessed by Isakios seemed to me also
67    to have been said to favor (the one side), and the law altogether does not admit things
68    witnessed by a single person. The things shown, however, to belong to her own
69    property, and especially the women's garments, these she shall have securely
70    and irrevocably, especially, as she set forth, the things removed. The
71    aforesaid gold has been demanded on account of the share that came to her
72    by common consent out of the affairs left behind.
73    And every claim shall be kept whole for her against those persons whom she thinks she has
74    concerning the loss said to have been inflicted on her
75    or concerning the exaction of the gold. And John her son
76    shall not be liable for this; for it belongs to everyone who thinks himself wronged
77    to approach the magistrates or those holding the place of the magistrates,
78    but it belongs to those (magistrates) to act with discrimination and not thus carelessly
79    to deal with the affairs. Wherefore the son I have freed from this liability,
80    not so much by strict justice as out of benevolence, but I have kept for her
81    every claim whole against the others who damaged her,
82    on condition, however, that of the gold which as is likely will be exacted, John
83    her son shall take a third part. But while this present
84    judgment was about to be issued, the plaintiff affirmed that there was offered to him by the
85    mother to take twelve solidi for a complete settlement.
86    And his mother not consenting to this argument, they agreed
87    among themselves with my knowledge that, if the plaintiff could
88    prove this lawfully through three trustworthy witnesses who attended the offer
89    and deposited this under oath,
90    to give him what is shown to have been agreed. The things therefore
91    that seemed to me to be right, having read them out to the parties, I have issued.
92    Marcus, scholasticus, in accordance with what I perceived, I judged.
