[META]
id:       P.MUENCH 1.16
label:    P.MUENCH 1.16
name:     Contract — Syene
genre:    contracts
date:     476 CE – 500 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Syene
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Syene (476 CE – 500 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Grundstück — Servitus — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       34764
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.muench;1;16
lat:      24.0885745
lon:      32.901491

[GREEK]
r.1    ιος … λκ …
r.2    ἀπὸ Συήνης χαίρειν. ὁμολ[ογῶ ἐγὼ ὁ προγεγραμμένος ἀ]μετανοήτῳ γνώμῃ καὶ ἀδόλ[ῳ]
r.3    προαιρέσει καὶ εἰλικρινεῖ συνειδήσει κατὰ τήνδε τὴν ἁπλῆν ἔγγραφον ἀσφάλειαν πεπρακέναι ὑμῖν σήμερον καὶ καταγεγραφέναι ἀπὸ τοῦ νῦν ἐπὶ τὸν
r.4    ἀεὶ καὶ ἑξῆς ἅπαντα χρόνον τὴν ὑπάρχουσάν μοι αὐλὴν ἐξ ὁλοκλήρου
r.5    [ἀ]πὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος, οἵας ἐστὶ διαθέσεως, διακειμένην ἐπὶ τὴ[ν αὐτὴν]
r.6    [Συήνη]ν καὶ περὶ τὸ νότινον μέρος τοῦ φρουρίου καὶ περὶ λαύραν καλουμέ[νην]
r.7    [τῆς παρεμβολῆ]ς ἤτοι σκυτέων, ἀνεῳγμένην ἔχουσαν τὴν θύραν εἰς [βορρᾶν]
r.8    [εἰς τὴν δημοσίαν] ῥ[ύμην] συνημ[μέ]νην τῇ ὑπαρχούσῃ ἐμ[οὶ οἰκίᾳ ἐ]ξ [ἀ]πηλιώτου αὐτῆς , ἐλθοῦσαν εἰς ἐμὲ ἀπὸ δικαίας ἀγορασίας παρὰ Πλούλλ[ου]
r.9    Σαβίνου στρατιώτου ἀγραρεύοντος Πανὸς καὶ Παύλου Κροὺρ καὶ Θίκρης καὶ Μαρίας ἀδελφῶν αὐτῆς καὶ Ἰωάνν[ου]
r.10   Πινούθου καὶ Ταδώρας Πασνοῦτος καὶ Μαρίας καὶ Τσαύας καὶ Ἀλεξάνδρας καὶ Μαρίας ἄλλης
r.11   Ψενθαησίου ἀκολούθως ταῖς ἐκδοθείσαις ὑμῖν παρʼ ἐμοῦ προκτητικαῖς ὠναῖς,
r.12   ἃς ἐξεδόμην ὑμῖν εἰς μείζονα ὑμῶν ἀσφάλειαν, καὶ εἰς αὐτοὺς ἀπὸ κληρονομικοῦ δικαίου τῶν γονέων αὐτῶν. εἰσὶ δὲ γείτονες τῆς αὐτῆς ἁπάσης αὐλῆς
r.13   νότου ῥύμη δημοσία ἄγουσα εἰς τὸ τεῖχος καὶ οἰκία Μαρτυρίας Ταχβὰρ καὶ Εὐχαρίου
r.14   Κύρου κεντυρίωνος , βορρᾶ ῥύμη δημοσία, εἰς ἣν νεύει ἡ αὐθεντικὴ αὐτῆς θύρα,
r.15   ἀπηλιώτου αὐλὴ Πετεροοῦτος, λιβὸς οἰκία μου τοῦ ὠνουμένου ὁ δὲ τοῖχος
r.16   [τῆσδε] τῆς οἰκίας μου, κοινωνιμιαῖος τυγχάνων ἀπηλι[ωτι]κῶς τῇ ἐμῇ οἰκ[ί]ᾳ, λιβι[κῶς]
r.17   δὲ τῇ αὐτῇ αὐλῇ, εἶναι ἐπὶ τὸ διηνεκὲς ἀπὸ ἐδάφους αὐτοῦ ἕως ἀέρος ἄνευ
r.18   ἀναλωμάτων διὰ τὸ ἐμὲ πεπληρῶσθαι παρʼ ὑμῶν τοῦ ἀναλώματος ἀπεντεῦθεν
r.19   ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες πάντη πάντοθεν καθὼς ὑπηγόρευσα ἐγὼ ὁ ἀποδόμενος. καὶ
r.20   οὐδὲν ἐμοὶ ὑπολέλειπται ἄπρατον ἐν τῇ αὐτῇ αὐλῇ ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος, τιμῆς
r.21   τῆς πρὸς ἀλλήλους συμπεφωνημένης καὶ συναρεσάσης χρυσοῦ δοκίμου
r.22   νομισματίων παλαιοχ[α]ρά[κτων εὐστάθ]μων δύο γίνεται χρυσοῦ νομισμάτια β, ἥνπερ
r.23   τελείαν τιμὴν αὐτόθι ἀπέσχον παρʼ ὑμῶν τῶν ὠνουμένων ἐγὼ ὁ ἀποδόμενος ἐν τῇ ἐνεστώσῃ ἡμέρᾳ διὰ χειρὸς εἰς χεῖρά μου ἐπὶ τῆς αὐτῆς Συήνης
r.24   ἀριθμῷ καὶ σταθμῷ πλήρη πρὸς τὸ ἐντεῦθεν ὑμᾶς τῆς προδεδηλωμένης
r.25   αὐλῆς ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος κυριεύειν καὶ δεσπόζειν καὶ διοικεῖν καὶ οἰκοδο[μεῖν]
r.26   καὶ ἐποικοδομεῖν καὶ πωλεῖν καὶ χαρίζεσθαι καὶ ἐπιτελεῖν τὰ περὶ αὐτῆς τρόπῳ
r.27   ᾧ ἂν αἱρῆσθε ἀκωλύτως καὶ ἀνεμποδίστως καὶ χρήζεσθαι κοινῶς τῷ προδεδηλωμένῳ τοίχῳ καὶ θεῖναι εἰς αὐτὸν δοκοὺς καὶ καμαρῶσαι καὶ ἐπιτελεῖν τὰ περὶ
r.28   αὐτῷ τρόπῳ ᾧ ἂν αἱρῆσθε ἀκωλύτως. καὶ μὴ ἐγκαλεῖν ὑμῖν μήτʼ ἐγκαλέσειν
r.29   μήθʼ ἕτερόν τινα τῶν ἐξ ἐμοῦ ὀνόματος ἐν μηδενὶ καιρῷ κατὰ μηδένα τρόπον
r.30   ἀφορμῇ μηδεμιᾷ, διὰ τὸ ὡς προεῖπον ἀπεσχηκέναι με παρʼ ὑμῶν τελείαν τὴν προγεγραμμένην τιμήν. τὸν δὲ ἐγκαλέσοντα ὑμῖν ἢ καὶ ἀντιποιησόμενον περὶ ταύτης
r.31   τῆς προδεδηλωμένης αὐλῆς ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος σὺν εἰσόδῳ καὶ ἐξόδῳ ἢ μέρους
r.32   αὐτῆς ἐγὼ ὁ πεπρακὼς ἀποστήσω καὶ καθαροποιήσω ὑμῖν ἰδίοις μου ἀναλώμασιν.
r.33   καὶ ἐξεδόμην ὑμῖν τήνδε τὴν πρᾶσιν κυρίαν οὖσαν καὶ βεβαίαν ἐφʼ ὑπογραφῆς τοῦ
r.34   ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ὑπογράφοντος πρὸς ἀσφάλειαν καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα καὶ ἀπέλυσα Αὐρήλιος
r.35   Δῖος Πατεχνουμίου γεωργὸς ὁ προκείμενος πέπρακα τὴν προκειμένην αὐλὴν
r.36   ἐξ ὁλοκλήρου ἀπὸ ἐδάφους ἕως ἀέρος καὶ ἀπέσχον παρʼ ὑμῶν τὴν προγεγραμμένην τιμὴν ἐν νομισματίοις δυσὶ καὶ βεβαιῶ τὴν πρᾶσιν
r.37   ὡ[ς] πρ[όκειται][ .] Φλαύιος Μαρτύριος Οὐίκτορος στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Φιλῶν ἀξιωθεὶς ἔγραψα
r.38   ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ γράμματα μὴ εἰδότος. Ἰσὰκ Ἰωσηφίου διάκονος ἐκκλησίας Συήνης
r.39   μαρτυρῶ. Αὐρήλιος Πασμῆς Παπνουθίου ἀπὸ Συήνης μαρτυρῶ
r.40   Πέτρος Ἰωσὴφ πρεσβύτερος ἐκκλησίας Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.41   Φλαύιος Ἴσακος Οὐίκτορος στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.42   Φλαύιος Παένου Ἰακὼβ ὀρδινάριος Φιλῶν μαρτυρῶ.
r.43   Φλαύιος Ἰωσὴφ Παύλου αὐγουστάλιος λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.44   Φλαύιος Κολλοῦθος Ἡρώδου στρατιώτης λεγεῶνος Συήνης μαρτυρῶ.
r.45   διʼ ἐμοῦ Φωσφορίου πρεσβυτέρου ἐγράφη

[TRANSLATION]
1     …ios … lk…
2     from Syene, greeting. I, the aforesaid, acknowledge with unrepentant intent and guileless
3     purpose and sincere conscience, according to this simple written deed of security, that I have sold to you today and conveyed from now for the
4     ever and continuous whole time the courtyard belonging to me, in its entirety,
5     from ground to air, in whatever condition it is, situated in the same
6     [Syene], in the southern part of the fortress and near the so-called lane
7     [of the camp,] that is, of the cobblers, having its door opening to [the north]
8     [into the public] street, adjoining the house belonging to me on its eastern (side), having come to me by lawful purchase from Ploullos
9     son of Sabinus, soldier of the garrison-troop of Pan, and from Paulos son of Krour and Thikre and Maria, his sisters, and from Ioannes
10    son of Pinouthos and Tadora daughter of Pasnous and Maria and Tsaua and Alexandra and another Maria
11    daughter of Psenthaesios, in accordance with the prior-title deeds of sale issued to you by me,
12    which I issued to you for your greater security, and to them by hereditary right from their parents. The neighbors of all this same courtyard are:
13    on the south the public street leading to the wall, and the house of Martyria daughter of Tachbar, and of Eucharios
14    son of Kyros, centurion; on the north the public street, into which its authentic door faces;
15    on the east the courtyard of Peteroous; on the west my house, (the house) of me the buyer; and the wall
16    [of this] my house, being held in common on the eastern (side) with my house, but on the western (side)
17    with the same courtyard, shall be in perpetuity from its ground to its air, without
18    expense, because I have been paid by you the cost from here on,
19    or whoever the neighbors may be on all sides, just as I the seller have dictated. And
20    nothing has been left to me unsold in the same courtyard from ground to air, the price
21    mutually agreed and approved between us being of approved gold
22    coins of old stamp, of full weight, two; total, of gold, 2 coins; which
23    full price I have here received from you the buyers, I the seller, on the present day from hand into my hand, in the same Syene,
24    in number and in weight, in full, so that from here on you may, of the aforementioned
25    courtyard from ground to air, be owner and master and manage and bui[ld]
26    and build upon and sell and bestow as a gift and dispose concerning it in whatever way
27    you may choose, unhindered and unimpeded, and use in common the aforementioned wall and set into it beams and vault it over and dispose concerning
28    it in whatever way you may choose, unhindered. And that I do not and will not bring suit against you,
29    nor any other on my behalf, at any time, in any way,
30    on any pretext, because, as I said before, I have received from you in full the aforesaid price. And the one who shall bring suit against you or lay claim concerning this
31    aforementioned courtyard from ground to air, together with entrance and exit, or a part
32    of it, I the seller will remove and clear (the title) for you at my own expense.
33    And I have issued to you this sale, being valid and secure, with the subscription of the one
34    subscribing on my behalf, for security; and being formally questioned I acknowledged and released (the deed). Aurelius
35    Dios son of Patechnoumios, farmer, the aforesaid, have sold the aforementioned courtyard
36    in its entirety from ground to air, and have received from you the aforesaid price in two coins, and I guarantee the sale
37    as set forth above. Flavius Martyrios son of Victor, soldier of the legion of Philae, having been requested, wrote
38    on his behalf, he not knowing letters. Isak son of Josephios, deacon of the church of Syene,
39    bear witness. Aurelius Pasmes son of Papnouthios, from Syene, bear witness.
40    Petros son of Joseph, presbyter of the church of Syene, bear witness.
41    Flavius Isakos son of Victor, soldier of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
42    Flavius Paenou son of Jacob, ordinarius of Philae, bear witness.
43    Flavius Joseph son of Paulos, augustalis of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
44    Flavius Kollouthos son of Herodes, soldier of the legion of Syene, bear witness.
45    Through me, Phosphorios the presbyter, it was written.
