[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 34.2732
label:    P.Oxy. 34.2732
name:     Letter — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    letters
date:     501 CE – 600 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Oxyrhynchos (501 CE – 600 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief — Geschäfte
tm:       24890
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;34;2732
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Π
r.2    πάραυτα τοῦ ἀπαντῆσαί με ἐπὶ τῆς Πηλουσιωτῶν τὰ γράμματα τῆς
r.3    ὑμετέρας μεγαλοπρεπείας π[α]ρεσχόμην τῷ τριβούνῳ Ἀφθονίῳ καὶ ταῦτα
r.4    ἀναγνοὺς ἔφησεν λέγων ὅτι ὅλα τὰ κελλαρικὰ εἰς πλῆρες εισ … εδε[ξ]άμην·
r.5    ὡς δὲ νομίζω ὅτι καὶ τὸ βουκκελλᾶτον καὶ τὰ τ[αρ]ιχηρὰ καὶ ἄλλα τ[ι]νὰ ἠφανίσθησαν καὶ θεὸς μόνος οἶδεν ὅτι πρὸ πολλοῦ ἐζήτησα αὐτὰ γομῶσαι εἰς πλοῖον
r.6    καὶ διὰ τὸ μὴ ἐπηρεασθῆναι αὐτὰ ὑπὸ τῶν ναυτῶν τούτου χάριν οὐκ ἀπέστειλα
r.7    εἰ οὖν δοκεῖ τῇ αὐτοῦ μεγαλοπρεπείᾳ ἀποστεῖλε εἰδικὸν ἄνθρωπον ἑαυτοῦ
r.8    ταῦτα πάραυτα παρέχω· εἶπεν δὲ ὁ κύριος Ἀφθόνιος ὅτι ἐγὼ καὶ τὰ ναῦλα τοῦ πλοίου παρέχω·
r.9    εἰ οὖν δοκεῖ τῷ ὑμετέρῳ μεγέθει πέμψε τινὰ τῶν παίδων ταῦτα ἀποστέλλεται· προσκυνεῖ δὲ ὁ αὐτὸς ἀνὴρ τὴν ὑμετέραν μεγαλοπρέπειαν· περὶ δὲ τοῦ φίλου παρασχ[ηκ]ὼς
r.10   αὐτῷ τὰ γράμματα ἀνέγνω καὶ εἶπεν ὅτι οὐδὲν χρεωστῶ εἶπεν δὲ αὐτῷ καὶ ὁ κύριος
r.11   Θεόγνωστος καὶ εἶπεν ὅτι οὐδὲν χρεωστῶ· ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐν τῷ ζεύ[γ]ματι ἦμεν, εἶπεν
r.12   ὅτι εἰς Θμοῦειν τὸν λόγον ποιῶ τῇ σῇ ἀρετῇ· οὐδεὶς δὲ τέως παρῆλθεν ἀπὸ τῆς πανευδαίμονος Κωνσταντινουπόλεως· εἰ δὲ ἔλθῃ τις περιεργάζoμαι τὰ κατὰ τὸν κύριον τὸν κόμετα
r.13   καὶ γράφω τῷ ὑμετέρῳ μεγέθει· ἐλπίζω δὲ εἰς τὸν δεσπότην θεὸν ὅτι μετὰ χαρᾶς ἔρχεται·
r.14   αὐτὰ δὲ ταῦτα προσανένεγκον τῷ κυρίῳ τῷ κόμετι.
r.15   ἐπίδος τῷ δεσπότῃ μου δια …

[TRANSLATION]
1     P
2     Immediately upon my meeting at Pelusium, the letter of
3     your magnificence I delivered to the tribune Aphthonios, and he, having
4     read these things, said, declaring, that "All the cellar-supplies I received in full";
5     but as I think that both the biscuit and the salt-fish and certain other things have disappeared, and God alone knows that long ago I sought to load them onto a boat,
6     and so that they not be harassed by the sailors, for this reason I did not send them.
7     If, then, it seems good to his magnificence to send a special man of his own,
8     these things I provide immediately. And the lord Aphthonios said that "I provide also the freight of the boat";
9     if, then, it seems good to your greatness, send one of the servants and these things are dispatched. And the same man does obeisance to your magnificence. And concerning the friend, having handed
10    to him the letter, he read it and said that "I owe nothing"; and the lord
11    Theognostos also said to him, and he said that "I owe nothing"; and since we were at the bridge-of-boats, he said
12    that "At Thmouis I render the account to your virtue." And no one so far has come from the all-prosperous Constantinople; but if anyone comes, I will look into the affairs concerning the lord the count
13    and write to your greatness. And I hope in the Lord God that he comes with joy;
14    and these very things refer to the lord the count.
15    Deliver to my master dia …
