[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 38.2849
label:    P.Oxy. 38.2849
name:     Petition — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    petitions
date:     296 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Oxyrhynchos (296 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Kopie — Petition — Ochse — Verletzung — Anweisungen — πρωτοστάται
tm:       22236
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;38;2849
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    τὸ κοινὸν τῶν πρωτοστατῶν τῆς λαμπρᾶς καὶ λαμπροτάτης Ὀξυρυγχιτῶν πόλεως
r.2    διὰ τῶν τὸν μῆνα διοικούντων Αὐρηλίων Ἥρωνος καὶ Πλουτάρχου
r.3    Ἑρμείᾳ ὑπηρέτῃ. τῶν ἐπιδοθέντων βιβλίων ὑπὸ τῆς ἐνγεγραμμένης ἴσον
r.4    ἐπιστέλλεταί σοι ὅπως ἀκόλουθα οἷς ἠξίωσεν πράξῃς.
r.5    ιβ ἔτους καὶ ια ἔτους τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Διοκλητιανοῦ καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ Σεβαστῶν
r.6    καὶ δ ἔτους τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Κωνσταντίου καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ τῶν
r.7    ἐπιφανεστάτων Καισάρων Παχὼν κϛ. Σεσημείωμαι.
r.8    ἐπὶ ὑπάτων τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Διοκλητιανοῦ Σεβαστοῦ τὸ ϛ καὶ
r.9    Κωνσταντίου ἐπιφανεστάτου Καίσαρος τὸ β.
r.10   τῷ κοινῷ τῶν πρωτοστατῶν τῆς λαμπρᾶς καὶ λαμπροτάτης Ὀξυρυγχιτῶν
r.11   πόλεως διὰ τῶν τὸν μῆνα διοικούντων Αὐρηλίων Πλουτάρχου καὶ
r.12   Ἥρωνος ἀμφοτέρων γυμνασιαρχησάντων [βουλευ]τῶν τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως
r.13   παρὰ Αὐρηλίας Ἀπολλωνία[ς] τῆς καὶ Διεῦτος θυγατρὸς Σαρᾶ ἄρξαντος τῆς τε
r.14   λαμπροτάτης πόλεως τῶν Ἀλεξανδρέων καὶ τῆς λαμπρᾶς καὶ λαμπροτάτης
r.15   Ὀξυρυγχιτῶν πόλεως καὶ ὡς ἐχρημάτιζεν. τοῦ στοίχου καὶ νῦν καλοῦντος
r.16   ὅπερ μόνον ἔχω ζεῦγος ταυρικῶν τὴν ἐργασίαν καὶ μετακομιδὴν ποιήσασθαι τῶν φορτίων λίθων τῶν χωρούντων πρὸς τὴν τῶν λιθίνων ἀφεσεων κατασκευὴν συμβέβηκεν τὸν ἕνα τῶν ταύρων πληγέντα κατὰ τοῦ
r.17   ποδὸς ἀπομεμενηκέναι καὶ ἐπισφαλῶς ἔχειν. ὅθεν ὑπὲρ τοῦ τοῦτο γνωσθῆναι ἐπιδίδωμι τάδε τὰ βιβλία ἀσφαλείας τῆς ἡμετέρας ἕνεκεν ἀξιοῦσα
r.18   ἐπισταλῆναι ὑπηρέτην [τὸ]ν ἐποψόμενον τοῦτον καὶ τὴν περὶ αὐτὸν διάθεσιν ἐνγράφως προσφωνῆσαι πρὸς τὸ δύνασθαί με τὸ ἀπαρενόχλητον ἔχ[ειν.]
r.19   ἔτους ιβ Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Γαΐου Αὐρηλίου Οὐαλερίου Διοκλητιανοῦ κ[αὶ]
r.20   ἔτους ια Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Μ[άρ]κ[ο]υ Αὐρηλίου Οὐαλερίου Μαξιμιανοῦ Γερμανικῶν
r.21   μεγίστων Σαρματικῶν μ[εγίστ]ων καὶ ἔτους δ τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Κωσταντίου καὶ
r.22   Μαξιμιανοῦ τῶν ἐπιφανεστάτων Καισάρων Σεβαστῶν Παχὼν κδ.
r.23   Αὐρηλία Ἀπ[ο]λλωνία ἐπιδέδωκα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     The corporation of the chief-officers of the splendid and most splendid city of the Oxyrhynchites,
2     through those administering the month, Aurelii Heron and Plutarch,
3     to Hermeias the attendant. A copy of the documents presented by the woman registered below
4     is sent to you, so that you may do what accords with what she has requested.
5     The 12th year and 11th year of our lords Diocletian and Maximian, Augusti,
6     and the 4th year of our lords Constantius and Maximian, the
7     most illustrious Caesars, Pachon 26. I have appended my signature.
8     In the consulship of our lords Diocletian Augustus for the 6th time and
9     Constantius the most illustrious Caesar for the 2nd time.
10    To the corporation of the chief-officers of the splendid and most splendid city of the Oxyrhynchites,
11    through those administering the month, Aurelii Plutarch and
12    Heron, both former gymnasiarchs, [council]lors of the same city,
13    from Aurelia Apollonia also called Dieus, daughter of Saras, who held office both in the
14    most splendid city of the Alexandrians and in the splendid and most splendid
15    city of the Oxyrhynchites, and however he was styled. Now that the gang (stoichos) is calling (me) up,
16    since the only yoke of oxen I have, to do the work and conveyance of the loads of stones suited for the construction of the stone outflows (?), it has happened that one of the oxen, struck on the
17    foot, has remained behind and is in a precarious condition. Wherefore, in order that this may be known, I present these documents for our security's sake, requesting
18    that an attendant be detailed to inspect this (animal) and to report in writing on its condition, so that I may be able to remain unmolested.
19    The 12th year of the Emperor Caesar Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus and
20    the 11th year of the Emperor Caesar Marcus Aurelius Valerius Maximianus, Germanici
21    Maximi, Sarmatici Maximi, and the 4th year of our lords Constantius and
22    Maximian, the most illustrious Caesars, Augusti, Pachon 24.
23    I, Aurelia Apollonia, have presented (this).
