[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 1.75
label:    P.Oxy. 1.75
name:     Documentary papyrus — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    documents
date:     129 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Oxyrhynchos (129 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Deklaration — Erbe — Eid
tm:       20734
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;1;75
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Διογένει καὶ Θέωνι τῷ καὶ Πτολεμαίῳ βιβλιοφύλαξι
r.2    παρὰ Θέωνος Θέωνος τοῦ Θέωνος μητρὸς Θερμούθιος Ἀπίωνος ἀπʼ Ὀξυρύγχων πόλεως. ἀπογράφομαι ἐπὶ τοῦ
r.3    παρόντος ἀπὸ τῶν κατηντηκότων
r.4    εἴς με ἐξ ὀνόματος τοῦ πατρός μου
r.5    Θέωνος Θέωνος τοῦ Θέωνος μητρ[ὸ]ς
r.6    Διωγενίδος τῆς καὶ Ταποντῶτος Σ[α]ραπίωνος ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως,
r.7    ἀκολούθως ᾗ ἔθετο σὺν τῇ γυναικὶ αὐτοῦ ἐμοῦ δὲ μητρὶ Θερμοῦθι
r.8    περὶ καταλείψεως διαθήκῃ ταῖς ἐπαγομέναις τοῦ τρίτου ἔτους
r.9    Δομιτιανοῦ διὰ τοῦ ἐνθάδε ἀγορανομίου ἐφʼ ᾗ ἀμεταθέτῳ
r.10   ἀμφότεροι ἐτελεύτησαν, ἐπʼ ἀμφόδου Ποιμενικῆς τρίτον μέρος ἧς εἶχεν οἰκίας τριστέγου
r.11   ὑφʼ ἣν κατάγειον καὶ τῆς προσούσης αὐλῆς, ἥνπερ ὅλην δηλῶ εἶνα[ι]
r.12   ὃ ἀπεγράψατο ἐπὶ τοποθεσίας ἥμισυ καὶ ὄγδοον μέρος οἰκίας, καὶ
r.13   ἐπὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἀμφόδου ὁμοίως
r.14   τρίτον μέρος οὗ εἶχεν μέρους κοινωνικοῦ ψιλοῦ τόπου περιτετειχισμένου, ὅπερ ὅλον ὁμοίως ἀπεγράψατο, ὡς μέρος οἰκίας συνπεπτωκυίας πρότερον τοῦ πατρὸς αὐτοῦ. δηλῶ δὲ τὴν ἀδελφήν μου
r.15   Διωγενίδα διαταγεῖσαν διὰ τῆς
r.16   διαθήκης προικὸς δραχμὰς
r.17   χιλίας καὶ [ἐ]νοίκησιν τετελευτηκέναι ἄτεκνον περιόντων
r.18   τῶν γονέων· καὶ ὀμνύω Αὐτοκράτορα
r.19   Καίσαρα Τραιανὸν Ἁδριανὸν Σεβαστὸν
r.20   μὴ ἐψεῦσθαι. ἔτους τρεισκαιδεκάτου
r.21   Αὐτοκράτορος Τραιανοῦ Ἁδριανοῦ
r.22   Σεβαστοῦ, Φαρμοῦθι ια.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Diogenes and Theon also called Ptolemaeus, keepers of the archives,
2     from Theon son of Theon, grandson of Theon, his mother being Thermouthis daughter of Apion, from the city of Oxyrhynchos. I register at
3     the present time, from the property which has devolved
4     upon me by name of my father
5     Theon son of Theon, grandson of Theon, his mother being
6     Diogenis also called Tapontos, daughter of Sarapion, from the same city,
7     in accordance with what he settled together with his wife, my mother Thermouthis,
8     concerning a bequest in a will, in the intercalary days of the third year
9     of Domitian, through the local record-office here, on which (will), being irrevocable,
10    both died: in the Shepherds' quarter, a third part of a three-storeyed house which he had,
11    under which is a cellar, and of the adjoining courtyard, the whole of which I declare to be
12    that which he registered on the site as a half and an eighth part of a house, and
13    in the same quarter likewise
14    a third part of a share which he held of a jointly-owned bare plot enclosed with a wall, the whole of which he likewise registered, as a part of a house formerly belonging to his father which had fallen in. And I declare that my sister
15    Diogenis, having been assigned through the
16    will a dowry of one thousand
17    drachmas and a right of habitation, died childless while
18    the parents were still living; and I swear by Imperator
19    Caesar Trajan Hadrian Augustus
20    that I have not lied. Year thirteen
21    of Imperator Trajan Hadrian
22    Augustus, Pharmouthi 11.
