[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 49.3493
label:    P.Oxy. 49.3493
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     175 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (175 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Darlehen (Weizen) — Rückzahlungsbedingungen — Namen — in zweifacher Ausfertigung — Empfänger = Sarapion (vgl. 3494) — Geber = Diogenes
tm:       15650
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;49;3493
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Σαραπίων ὁ καὶ Ἀλέξανδρος Διογένους τοῦ Ἑρμαΐσκου μητρὸς Δημητροῦτος ἀπʼ Ὀξυρύγχων πόλεως Διογένει τῷ καὶ Διονυσίῳ Διογένους τοῦ Διογένους μητρὸς Πλουτάρχης
r.2    ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ ἔχειν παρὰ σοῦ καὶ παραμεμετρῆσθαι
r.3    πυροῦ γενήματος τοῦ διελθόντος τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου ἔτους μέτρῳ δημοσίῳ ἡμιαρταβίῳ ἀρτάβας διακοσίας πεντήκοντα ἑπτὰ ἥμισυ, γίνονται ἀρτάβαι διακόσιαι πεντήκοντα ἑπτὰ ἥμισυ , ἃς ὁπηνίκα ἐὰν αἱρῇ ταύτας σοι παραδώσω ἢ οἷς ἐὰν
r.4    αἱρῇ ἀνυπερθέτως ἢ γενήματος τοῦ τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου ἔτους ἢ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος
r.5    πεντεκαιδεκάτου ἔτους νέον καθαρὸν ἄδολον ἄβωλον κεκοσκινευμένον
r.6    μέτρῳ τῷ προκειμένῳ ἐν κώμῃ Ψώβθει τῆς πρὸς ἀπηλιώτην τοπαρχίας,
r.7    γινομένης σοι τῆς πράξεως ἔκ τε ἐμοῦ καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόν[των] μοι πάντων
r.8    καθάπερ ἐκ δίκης. κύριον τὸ χειρόγραφόν μου τοῦ Σαραπίωνος τοῦ καὶ Ἀλεξάνδρου
r.9    ἰδιόγραφον δισσὸν γραφὲν πανταχῇ ἐπιφερόμενον καὶ παντὶ τῷ ὑπὲρ σοῦ
r.10   ἐπιφέροντι. ἔτους ιε Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου Ἀντωνίνου Σεβαστοῦ
r.11   Ἀρμενιακοῦ Μηδικοῦ Παρθικοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Μεγίστου, [Με]χ[ε]ὶ[ρ κθ.]
r.12   Σαραπίων ὁ καὶ Ἀλέξανδρος Διογένους τοῦ Ἑρμαΐσκου μητρὸς Δημητροῦτος
r.13   ἀπʼ Ὀξυρύγχων πόλεως Διογένει τῷ καὶ Διονυσίῳ Διογένους τοῦ Διογένους μητρὸς Πλουτάρχης ἀπὸ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως χαίρειν. ὁμολογῶ ἔχειν παρὰ
r.14   σοῦ καὶ παραμεμετρῆσθαι πυροῦ γενήματος τοῦ διελθόντος τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου
r.15   ἔτους μέτρῳ δημοσίῳ ἡμιαρταβίῳ ἀρτάβας διακοσίας πεντήκοντα ἑπτὰ
r.16   ἥμισυ, γίνονται ἀρτάβαι διακόσιαι πεντήκοντα ἑπτὰ ἥμισυ , ἃς ὁπηνίκα
r.17   ἐὰν αἱρῇ ταύτας σοι παραδώσω ἢ οἷς ἐὰν αἱρῇ ἀνυπερθέτως [ἢ] γενήματος τοῦ
r.18   τεσσαρεσκαιδεκάτου ἔτους ἢ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος πεντεκαιδεκάτου ἔτους νέον
r.19   καθαρὸν ἄδολον ἄβωλον ἄκριθον κεκοσκινευμένον μέτρῳ [τῷ] προκε[ι]μένῳ ἐν κώμῃ Ψώβθει τῆς πρὸς ἀπηλιώτην τοπαρχίας, γιν[ο]μ[έν]ης
r.20   σοι τῆς πράξεως ἔκ τε ἐμοῦ καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων μοι πάντων καθάπερ
r.21   ἐκ δίκης. κύριον τὸ χειρόγραφόν μου τοῦ Σαραπίωνος τοῦ καὶ Ἀλεξάνδρου ἰδιόγραφον δισσὸν γραφὲν πανταχῇ ἐπιφερόμενον καὶ παντὶ τῷ ὑπὲρ σοῦ
r.22   ἐπιφέρο[ν]τι. ἔτους ιε Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου Ἀντωνίνου Σε[βαστοῦ]
r.23   Ἀρμεν[ια]κοῦ Μηδικοῦ Παρθικοῦ Γερμανικοῦ Μεγίστου, Μεχεὶρ κθ.
r.24   … τα ἀποδιδοῦντος …
r.25   … αποντος καὶ …
r.26   … ερου τὰ γράμματα …

[TRANSLATION]
1     Sarapion also called Alexandros, son of Diogenes son of Hermaiskos, whose mother is Demetrous, from the city of Oxyrhynchos, to Diogenes also called Dionysios, son of Diogenes son of Diogenes, whose mother is Plutarche,
2     from the same city, greeting. I acknowledge that I have received from you and have had measured out to me
3     of wheat, produce of the past fourteenth year, by the public half-artaba measure, two hundred and fifty-seven and a half artabas, total artabas two hundred and fifty-seven and a half, which, whenever you choose, I will deliver to you or to whomever you
4     choose, without delay, either from the produce of the fourteenth year or of the present
5     fifteenth year, new, pure, unadulterated, free of clods, sifted,
6     by the aforesaid measure, in the village of Psobthis of the toparchy toward the east,
7     you having the right of execution upon both me and all my property
8     just as by a legal decision. Valid is my handwritten note, that of Sarapion also called Alexandros,
9     autograph, written in duplicate, to be produced everywhere, and (valid) for everyone producing it on your behalf.
10    Year 15 of the Emperor Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus
11    Armeniacus Medicus Parthicus Germanicus Maximus, [Me]cheir [29.]
12    Sarapion also called Alexandros, son of Diogenes son of Hermaiskos, whose mother is Demetrous,
13    from the city of Oxyrhynchos, to Diogenes also called Dionysios, son of Diogenes son of Diogenes, whose mother is Plutarche, from the same city, greeting. I acknowledge that I have received from
14    you and have had measured out to me, of wheat, produce of the past fourteenth
15    year, by the public half-artaba measure, two hundred and fifty-seven
16    and a half artabas, total artabas two hundred and fifty-seven and a half, which, whenever
17    you choose, I will deliver to you or to whomever you choose, without delay, either from the produce of the
18    fourteenth year or of the present fifteenth year, new,
19    pure, unadulterated, free of clods, free of barley, sifted, by the aforesaid measure, in the village of Psobthis of the toparchy toward the east, you having
20    the right of execution upon both me and all my property just as
21    by a legal decision. Valid is my handwritten note, that of Sarapion also called Alexandros, autograph, written in duplicate, to be produced everywhere, and (valid) for everyone on your behalf
22    producing it. Year 15 of the Emperor Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus
23    Armeniacus Medicus Parthicus Germanicus Maximus, Mecheir 29.
24    … paying back …
25    … apontos and …
26    … erou the writing …
