[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 45.3250
label:    P.Oxy. 45.3250
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     63 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (63 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Schiffsfracht von Arakos — volle Verantwortung des Schiffers für die Fracht — Vorschriften zur Navigation
tm:       15914
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;45;3250
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐναύλωσεν Ἀν[ο]υβᾶς Ἑρμίου τῶν ἀπὸ Ὑφαντῶνος τοῦ Ἑρμοπολείτου
r.2    Πέρσης τῆς ἐπ[ι]γονῆς κυβερνήτης τῆς Μάρκου Κορνηλίου Τορούλλου ἑκατοντάρχου σκάφης ποταμίας ἀγωγῆς ἀρταβῶν
r.3    πεντακοσίων Πολυτίμῳ Γαΐου Νορβανοῦ Πτολεμαίου
r.4    τὴν δηλουμένην σκάφην σὺν τῇ ναυτείᾳ, εἰς ἣν καὶ ἐμβαλεῖται ἀφʼ ὧν ἐὰν αἱρῆται τοῦ Ἑρμοπολείτου νομοῦ ὅρμων ἄρακος
r.5    μέτρῳ Ἀθηναίου ἀρτάβας πεντακοσίας καὶ τῶν ἑκατὸν
r.6    ἀρταβῶν ἀναυλὶ ἀρτάβας δέκα δύο ἥμισυ , ὥστε ἀποκαταστῆσαι εἰς Ἀκανθῶνα καὶ Λιλῆ τοῦ Ὀξυρυγχείτου, ναύλου τοῦ
r.7    διεσταμένου πρὸς ἀλλήλους τῶν ἑκατὸν ἀρταβῶν
r.8    ἀργυρίου δραχμῶν εἴκοσι ὀκτώ , ὥστʼ εἶναι δραχμὰς ἑκατὸν
r.9    τεσσεράκοντα , ἀφʼ ὧν ὁμολογεῖ ὁ Ἀνουβᾶς ἐσχηκέναι παρὰ
r.10   τοῦ Πολυτείμου ἐπὶ τῶν τόπων δραχμὰς ἑβδομήκοντα
r.11   δύο . τὰς δὲ λοιπὰς τοῦ ναύλου δραχμὰς ἑξήκοντα ὀκτὼ
r.12   ἀποδότω αὐτῷ ἐπὶ τῆς ἐκβολῆς τοῦ ἄρακος. παραστησάτω
r.13   οὖν τὴν σκάφην ἑτοίμην πρὸς τὸν ἀνάπλουν τῇ μιᾷ καὶ εἰκάδι τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος μηνὸς Σεβαστοῦ, καὶ γενόμενος
r.14   ἐπὶ τῶν τοῦ Ἑρμοπολείτου ὅρμων καὶ ἀναλαβὼν καὶ παραλαβὼν τὸν ἄρακα ἀποπλευσάτω ἀνυπερθέτως
r.15   μετὰ πάσης ἀσφαλείας, ἑαυτῷ παρεχόμενος ἐν τῷ ἀνάπλῳ καὶ κατάπλῳ τὴν τῆς σκάφης χορηγίαν πᾶσαν ἐντελῆ
r.16   καὶ ναύτας ἱκανούς, καὶ μὴ ἐξέστω αὐτῷ νυκτοπλοεῖν μηδὲ
r.17   χειμῶνος ὄντος. ἀνορμείτω καθʼ ἑκάστην ἡμέραν
r.18   ἐπὶ τῶν ἀσφαλεστάτων ὅρμων, τῶν διεραμάτων τοῦ
r.19   Ἑρμοπολείτου ὄντων πρὸς τὸν Ἀνουβᾶν, τῶν δὲ τοῦ Ὀξυρυγχείτου ὄντων πρὸς τὸν Πολύτιμον. τὸν δὲ ἄρακα παραδότω τῷ Πολυτίμῳ ἢ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ ἐπὶ τοῦ τῆς Λιλῆ καὶ
r.20   Ἀγανθῶνος ὅρμο[υ] μέτρῳ ᾧ ἐὰν παραλάβῃ, τοῦ ἐκβησομένου ἐκ τῆς κοίλης ὄντος τοῦ Πολυτίμου ἢ ἀποτισάτω
r.21   αὐτῷ τιμὴ[ν] ἑκαστη[ς ] …

[TRANSLATION]
1     Anoubas son of Hermias, of those from Hyphanton in the Hermopolite nome,
2     a Persian of the epigone, captain of the river-boat of Marcus Cornelius Torullus the centurion, of a carrying capacity of
3     five hundred artabas, has leased out to Polytimos son of Gaius Norbanus Ptolemaios
4     the said boat together with its crew, into which there shall also be loaded, from whatever (harbours) he chooses of the Hermopolite nome's anchorages, of arakos (pulse)
5     by the measure of Athenaios five hundred artabas, and for the hundred
6     artabas twelve and a half artabas freight-free, so as to deliver (them) to Akanthon and Lile in the Oxyrhynchite nome, the freight
7     agreed between one another for the hundred artabas
8     being twenty-eight drachmas of silver, so that it is one hundred
9     forty drachmas, of which Anoubas acknowledges that he has received from
10    Polytimos at the place (of loading) seventy
11    two drachmas. And the remaining sixty-eight drachmas of the freight
12    let him (Polytimos) pay to him at the unloading of the arakos. Let him therefore present
13    the boat ready for the upriver voyage on the twenty-first of the present month Sebastos, and, having come
14    to the anchorages of the Hermopolite nome and having taken up and received the arakos, let him sail down without delay
15    with all safety, providing for himself in the upriver and downriver voyage the whole equipment of the boat complete
16    and sufficient sailors; and let it not be permitted to him to sail by night nor
17    when there is a storm. Let him moor each day
18    at the safest anchorages, the ferry-crossings of the
19    Hermopolite nome being to the charge of Anoubas, and those of the Oxyrhynchite to the charge of Polytimos. And let him deliver the arakos to Polytimos or to those acting for him at the anchorage of Lile and
20    Akanthon by the measure with which he received it, the (grain) that comes out from the hold being to the charge of Polytimos, or let him pay
21    to him the price of each … .
