[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 1.102
label:    P.Oxy. 1.102
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     306 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (306 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Antrag — Pacht — Land — Notarsunterschrift
tm:       20761
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;1;102
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐπὶ ὑπάτων τ[ῶν] κ[υ]ρίων ἡ[μ]ῶν Αὐτοκρατόρων
r.2    Κωνσταντίου καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ Σεβαστῶν τὸ ϛ.
r.3    Αὐρηλίᾳ Ἀντιοχίῃ τῇ καὶ Διονυσίᾳ, θυγατρὶ Ἀντιόχου τοῦ καὶ
r.4    Διονυσίου ἄρξαντος τῆς λαμπροτάτης πόλεως τῶν Ἀλεξανδρέων,
r.5    παρὰ Αὐρηλίου Διοσκόρου Ἀπολλωνίου μητρὸς Εἰδοῦτος,
r.6    ἀπὸ τῆς λαμπρᾶς καὶ λαμπροτάτης Ὀξυρυγ χιτῶν πόλεως. ἑκουσίως
r.7    ἐπιδέχομαι μισθώσασθαι πρὸς μόνον τὸ ἐνεστὸς ἔτος ιε καὶ γ
r.8    ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων σοι περὶ Σεντὼ Πλελὼ τῆς μέσης τοπαρχίας
r.9    τοῦδε τοῦ νομοῦ πρὸς ἐποικίῳ Σ … αειτε λεγομένῳ
r.10   ἐκ βορρᾶ χώματος μηχανῆς ἐδ[άφ]ους Τεψιταὶ [λε]γομένου,
r.11   ἀρούρας ἐννέα , ἢ ὅσαι ἐὰν ὦσι, ἐκ [γε]ωμετρίας, [εἰς] ξυλαμὴν
r.12   λινοκαλάμης, φόρου ἀποτακτοῦ ἑκάστης ἀρούρης ἀργυρίου
r.13   ταλάντου ἑνὸς καὶ δραχμῶν τρισχιλίων πεντακοσίων . ἀπὸ δὲ τῶν
r.14   συναγομένων αὐτόθι ὁμολογεῖ ἡ γεοῦχος ἐσχ[η]κέναι παρὰ
r.15   τοῦ μεμισθωμένου ἀργυρίου τάλαντα τέσσαρα ἀκίνδυνα
r.16   παντὸς κινδύν[ου], τῶν τῆς γῆς δημοσίων ὄντων πρὸς σὲ
r.17   τὴν γεοῦχον κυριεύουσαν τῶν καρπῶν ἕως οὗ τὸν φόρον ἀπολάβῃς. βεβαιουμένης δέ μοι τῆς ἐπιδ[ο]χῆς ἐπάναγκες ἀποδώσω τὰ λοιπὰ τοῦ φόρου τῷ Ἐπεὶφ μηνὶ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἀνυπερθέτως. κυρία ἡ ἐπιδοχή, καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. [ι]ε ἔτους καὶ γ ἔτους τῶν κυρίων ἡμῶν Κωνσταντίου
r.18   καὶ Μαξιμιανοῦ Σεβαστῶν καὶ Σευήρου καὶ Μαξιμίνου τῶν
r.19   ἐπιφανεστάτων Καισάρων, Φαῶφι ιϛ.
r.20   Αὐρηλία Ἀντιοχία ἡ καὶ Διονυσία ἐμίσθωσα
r.21   καὶ ἔσχον τὰ τοῦ ἀργυρίου τάλα[ν]τα τέσσαρα ὡς πρόκειται.
r.22   διʼ ἐμοῦ Ἀπίωνος ς … ἐγένετο.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the consulship of our lords the Emperors
2     Constantius and Maximian, Augusti, for the 6th time.
3     To Aurelia Antiochia also called Dionysia, daughter of Antiochus also called
4     Dionysius, ex-magistrate of the most illustrious city of the Alexandrians,
5     from Aurelius Dioskoros son of Apollonios, his mother being Eidous,
6     from the splendid and most illustrious city of the Oxyrhynchites. Voluntarily
7     I undertake to lease, for the present 15th and 3rd year only,
8     from the property belonging to you near Sento Plelo of the middle toparchy
9     of this nome, by the hamlet called S…aeite,
10    north of the embankment of the water-wheel, of the plot called Tepsitai,
11    nine arouras, or however many there may be, by survey, for the sowing
12    of flax-stalks, at a fixed rent for each aroura of silver
13    one talent and three thousand five hundred drachmas. And from
14    the (crops) gathered there the landowner acknowledges to have received from
15    the lessee four talents of silver, free from all
16    risk, the public dues of the land being your responsibility,
17    you the landowner having ownership of the crops until you recover the rent. And when the undertaking is confirmed to me, of necessity I will pay the remainder of the rent in the month Epeiph of the present (year) without delay. Valid is the undertaking, and on being asked I acknowledged. 15th year and 3rd year of our lords Constantius
18    and Maximian, Augusti, and Severus and Maximinus the
19    most noble Caesars, Phaophi 16.
20    I, Aurelia Antiochia also called Dionysia, have leased
21    and have received the four talents of silver as aforesaid.
22    Through me, Apion … it was done.
