[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 17.2110
label:    P.Oxy. 17.2110
name:     Documentary papyrus — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    documents
date:     370 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Oxyrhynchos (370 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Berichte (Sitzung) — Protokoll — Senat — Protest gegen zusätzliche Liturgie — Ausstattung des Heeres mit Kleidung — Mitglied der "Vierundzwanzig" — Einsicht des Prytanis
tm:       17494
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;17;2110
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    ὑ[πα]τείας τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν Οὐαλεντινιανοῦ καὶ Οὐάλεντος αἰωνίων Αὐγούστων τὸ γ, Φαῶφι θ,
r.2    βουλῆς οὔσης, πρυτανίας Κλαυδίου Ἑρμείου Γελασίου γυμνασιαρχήσαντος βουλευτοῦ, μετὰ τὰς εὐφημίας
r.3    καὶ παρελθόντος εἰς μέσον Θέωνος Ἀμμωνίου βουλευτοῦ διὰ Μακροβίου υἱοῦ καὶ καταθεμένου οὕτως· οἴδατε καὶ ὑμεῖς, συνβουλευταί,
r.4    ὅ[τι] ἐπὶ τῆς μελλο[ύ]σης κήρας εἰμὶ καὶ ἐν τοῖς εἰκοσιτέσσαρσιν εἰμὶ τοῖς διατυπωθεῖσιν ὑπὸ τοῦ κυρίου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου Τατιανοῦ εἰς τὰς παγαρχίας καὶ κονδουκτορίας, καὶ ἴσως κατʼ ἄγνοιαν ὁ πρόεδρος ἐχειροτόνησέν με εἰς ἐπιμέλειαν τῆς στρατιωτικῆς ἐρεᾶς ἐσθῆτος τῆς ιδ ἔτους ἰνδικτίονος, μάλιστα νῦν
r.5    ἱπποτ[ρ]όφου τυγχάνοντός μου, καὶ διὰ τοῦτο παρατίθημι ἐν ὑμῖν ὡς οὐ χρὴ λύεσθαι τὰ διατυπωθέντα. οἱ βουλευταὶ ἐφώνησαν. κύριον τὸ κατὰ κῆραν.
r.6    οὐ [χ]ρὴ παραλύεσθαι τὰ καλῶς διατυπωθέντα. Πτολεμῖνος λογιστεύσας εἶπεν· βέβαια καὶ ἀσάλευτα χρὴ εἶναι τὰ διατυπωθέντα ὑπὸ τοῦ κυρίου
r.7    λαμπροτάτου Τατιανοῦ ἐκ συναινέσεως παντὸς τοῦ βουλευτηρίου, ὥστε μὴ λειτουργεῖν τοὺς εἰκοσιτέσσαρας εἰς μηδʼ ὁτιοῦν λειτούρ γημα ἀλλὰ
r.8    ἔχειν ἐπὶ ταῖς βαρυτέραις λειτουργίαις, οὐ μόνον ἐπὶ τῆς πρυτανίας ταύτης ἀλλὰ ἐπὶ τῶν μελλόντων πρυτανεύειν. εἰ δὲ βούλεταί τις
r.9    [λ]ε[ιτουργ]εῖν εἰς ἕτερον λειτούργημα, οὐ κινδύνω τοῦ βουλευτηρίου λειτουργεῖ, καὶ οὐκ ὀφείλει Μακρόβιος ἐνοχλεῖσθαι. Γερόντιος ἐξακτο[ρεύσας εἶπεν·] τὰ καλῶς διατυπωθέντα καὶ μετὰ τοῦ νομίμου γενόμενα ὑπὸ τοῦ κυρίου μου Τατιανοῦ καὶ ἀνενεχθέντα πρὸς τοὺς
r.10   δεσ[πότας ἡ]μῶν καὶ πρὸς τοὺς κυρίους μου τοὺς λαμπροτάτους ἐπάρχους τοῦ ἱεροῦ πραιτωρίου καὶ ἐκεῖθεν τὸ κῦρος ἔχει, ὅθεν οὐ προσῆκόν
r.11   ἐστιν Μακ[ρό]β[ιο]ν ὀχλεῖσθαι ὑπό τε τοῦ πρυτάνεως οὐδʼ ὑπὸ τοῦ μελλοπρυτάνεως εἰς ἑτέρας ἐπιμελείας. Σαρμάτης λογιστεύσας εἶπεν·
r.12   ἴσως κατʼ ἄγνοιαν ὁ ἀδελφὸς ἡμῶν Ἑρμείας ὁ πρόεδρος ὑ[π]έλαβεν Μακρόβιον ὄντα ἐκ τῶν κδ τῶν διατυπωθέντων ὑπὸ τοῦ κυρίου μου
r.13   [Τα]τιανοῦ, οὗ[τος] δὲ οὐκ ὀφείλει ἐνοχλεῖσθαι προφάσει ἐπιμελείας εἰ δὲ βουληθείη τις ἐκ τῶν κδ ἀμβιτεύειν, οἶδεν τὸν ἑαυτοῦ κίνδυνον.
r.14   … μο … ς εἶπεν· οὐκ ὀφείλει τις ἐκ τῶν εἰκοσιτεσσάρων τῶν διατυπωθέντων ἐκ τῆς καθαρότητος τοῦ κυρίου μου Τατιανοῦ
r.15   … μ … αλ … προέδρων, Μακρόβιος δὲ νῦν οὐκ ὀφείλει ἐνοχλεῖσθαι εἰς τὴν ἐπιμέλειαν τῆς στρατιωτικῆς ἐρεᾶς
r.16   [ἐσθῆτος ο]ὐδʼ εἰς ἕτερόν τι, ἀλλʼ ἀρκεῖσθαι αὐτὸν ταῖς βαρυτάταις λειτουργίαις. Ἀμμωνιανὸς ἐξακτορεύσας εἶπεν· τὰ καλῶς διατυπωθέντα
r.17   [κα]ὶ μετὰ … είας καὶ ἀρέσαντα το[ῖς] δ[εσ]πότα[ι]ς τῆς οἰκουμένης καὶ τοῖς κυρίοις μου τοῖς λαμπροτάτοις ἐπάρχοις οὐ χρὴ
r.18   παραλύεσθαι οὔτε ὑπὸ τοῦ νῦν πρυτάνεως οὔτε ὑπὸ [μελλόντ]ων πρυτάνεων, ὅθεν οὐκ ὀφείλει Μακρόβιος ἐνοχλεῖσθαι εἰς ἑτέρας λειτουργίας. Οὐαλέριος Εὐδαίμονος γυμνασιαρχήσας εἶπεν· οὐκ ἔστιν ἀκό[λουθον ἡμ]ῖν ἔτι πρᾶξαί τι ἐκτὸς τῶν δια[τυ]πωθέντων ὑπὸ τοῦ κυ[ρίου] μο[υ] Τατιανοῦ,
r.19   [ὅ]θεν οὐκ ὀφείλει Μακρόβιος οὔδʼ ἕτερός τις τεκ … ἐπιβουλεύεσθαι εἰς τὸ παράπαν ἀλλὰ τούτους φυλάτ τεσθαι τῇ [κα]λῶς γενομένῃ
r.20   διοικήσει. Μακρόβιος ῥιπάριος εἶπεν· εἷς ὢν ἐκ τῶν κδ Μακρόβιος οὐκ ὀφίλει εἰς ἕτερον
r.21   λειτούργημα ἐνοχλεῖσθαι. Ἀχιλλεὺς Πόσι ῥιπάριος εἶπεν· χάριν τότε πάντες
r.22   ὡμολογήσαμεν ἐπὶ τῇ καλῶς γενομένῃ διοικήσει ὑπὸ τοῦ κυρίου τοῦ λαμπροτάτου Τατιανοῦ.
r.23   οὐκ ὀφείλει Μακρόβιος τοίνυν ἐνοχλεῖσθαι εἰς τὴν ἐπιμέλειαν τῆς στρατιωτικῆς
r.24   ἐρεᾶς ἐσθῆτος οὐδὲ εἰς ἕτερόν τι λειτούργημα, διὰ τὸ ἕνα αὐτὸν εἶναι τῶν κδ.
r.25   Ζωΐλος Διονυσίου γυμνασιαρχήσας εἶπεν· καὶ ἐγὼ σύνψηφός εἰμι ἐπὶ τοῖς κατατεθεῖσιν
r.26   ὑπὸ τῆς κοινότητος ὥστε μὴ ἐνοχλεῖσθαι τοὺς κδ τούτους οὔτε ὑπὸ [τοῦ νῦν πρυτάνεως οὔτε ὑπὸ] τῶν
r.27   μελλόντων πρυτανεύειν. ὅθεν οὐκ ὀφείλει Μακρόβιος ἐνοχλεῖσθαι μάλιστα εἷς ὢν τῶν κδ. Θέων Εὐσεβίου πρυτανεύσας εἶπεν· ὁ ἀδελφὸς ἡμῶν ὁ πρόεδρος
r.28   ἴσως κατʼ ἄγνοιαν μὴ γινώσκων Θέωνα διὰ Μακροβίου υἱοῦ ὄντα ἐκ τῶν κδ ἀνδρῶν
r.29   τῶν διατυπηθέντων εἰς τὰς βαρυτέρας λειτουργίας ὑπέβαλεν αὐτὸν εἰς τὴν
r.30   ἐσθῆτα, ὅθεν ὀνε[ι]δίζομεν ὡς οὐ προσήκει αὐτὸν ἐνοχλεῖσθαι προφάσει ἐπιμελείας
r.31   τῆς αὐτῆς ἐρεᾶς ἐσθῆτος. Εὐλόγιος Πτολεμαίου γυμνασιαρχήσας εἶπεν· Θέων Ἀμμωνίου διὰ
r.32   Μακροβίου υἱοῦ εἷς ὢν τῶν διατυπωθέντων κδ εἰς τὰς βαρυτάτας λειτουργίας
r.33   οὐκ ὀφείλει ὄχλησίν τινα παθεῖν προφάσει ἑτέρων λειτουργιῶν. ὁ πρύτανις εἶπεν·
r.34   ὅσα κοινῇ τε καὶ καθʼ ἓν προηνέγκεσθε ἔχει ἡ πίστις τῶν ὑπομνημάτων, καὶ οὐκ
r.35   ἐνοχληθήσεται Μακρόβιος εἰς τὴν ἐπιμέλειαν τῆς στρατιωτικῆς ἐρεᾶς ἐσθῆτος
r.36   τῆς ιδ ἔτους ἰνδικτίονος.
r.37   Αὐρήλιο[ς Ἰσ]ίδωρος σκρίβας ἐξεδόμην τὰ ὑπομνήματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the consulship of our masters Valentinian and Valens, the eternal Augusti, for the 3rd time, Phaophi 9,
2     the council being in session, in the prytany of Claudius Hermeias Gelasius, former gymnasiarch, councillor, after the acclamations,
3     and Theon son of Ammonius, councillor, having come forward into the midst through Macrobius his son and having made a deposition as follows: You too know, fellow councillors,
4     that I am subject to the coming widowhood (?) and am among the twenty-four men appointed by the lord, the most illustrious Tatianus, to the pagarchies and conductorships; and perhaps in ignorance the president nominated me to the charge of the soldiers' woollen clothing of the 14th-year indiction, especially now
5     when I happen to be a horse-rearer; and on this account I lay before you that the things appointed ought not to be undone. The councillors cried out: The decision concerning the widowhood (?) is valid.
6     The things rightly appointed ought not to be set aside. Ptoleminus, former logistes, said: Firm and unshaken ought to be the things appointed by the lord
7     the most illustrious Tatianus with the consent of the whole council, so that the twenty-four men should not perform liturgy in any service whatever, but
8     should be reserved for the heavier liturgies, not only under this prytany but under those who are going to be prytaneis. And if anyone wishes
9     to perform another liturgy, he does it at no risk to the council, and Macrobius ought not to be troubled. Gerontius, former exactor, said: The things rightly appointed and done lawfully by my lord Tatianus and referred to
10    our masters and to my lords the most illustrious prefects of the sacred praetorium, and from them having their authority, whence it is not fitting
11    that Macrobius be troubled either by the prytanis or by the prytanis-elect for other charges. Sarmates, former logistes, said:
12    Perhaps in ignorance our brother Hermeias the president supposed that Macrobius, being one of the 24 appointed by my lord
13    Tatianus, was liable; but this man ought not to be troubled on pretext of a charge; and if anyone of the 24 should wish to canvass, he knows his own risk.
14    … said: No one of the twenty-four appointed by the purity of my lord Tatianus ought …
15    … of the presidents; and Macrobius now ought not to be troubled with the charge of the soldiers' woollen
16    clothing nor with anything else, but he should content himself with the heaviest liturgies. Ammonianus, former exactor, said: The things rightly appointed
17    and with … and which have pleased the masters of the world and my lords the most illustrious prefects ought not
18    to be undone either by the present prytanis or by future prytaneis, whence Macrobius ought not to be troubled with other liturgies. Valerius son of Eudaemon, former gymnasiarch, said: It is not consistent for us to do anything further beyond the things appointed by my lord Tatianus,
19    whence neither Macrobius nor any other … ought to be plotted against at all, but these men should be preserved for the well-conducted
20    administration. Macrobius riparius said: Being one of the 24, Macrobius ought not to be troubled with another
21    liturgy. Achilleus son of Posis, riparius, said: For this reason we all then
22    gave thanks for the administration well conducted by the lord, the most illustrious Tatianus.
23    Macrobius therefore ought not to be troubled with the charge of the soldiers' woollen
24    clothing nor with any other liturgy, because he is one of the 24.
25    Zoilus son of Dionysius, former gymnasiarch, said: I too am of one vote with the things deposed
26    by the community, so that these 24 men should not be troubled either by [the present prytanis or by] the
27    prytaneis to come; whence Macrobius ought not to be troubled, especially being one of the 24. Theon son of Eusebius, former prytanis, said: Our brother the president
28    perhaps in ignorance, not knowing that Theon, through Macrobius his son, is one of the 24 men
29    appointed for the heavier liturgies, subjected him to the
30    clothing; whence we reproach this, as it is not fitting that he be troubled on pretext of the charge
31    of the same woollen clothing. Eulogius son of Ptolemaeus, former gymnasiarch, said: Theon son of Ammonius, through
32    Macrobius his son, being one of the 24 appointed for the heaviest liturgies,
33    ought not to suffer any disturbance on pretext of other liturgies. The prytanis said:
34    Whatever you have brought forward both in common and individually has the credit of the minutes, and
35    Macrobius shall not be troubled with the charge of the soldiers' woollen clothing
36    of the 14th-year indiction.
37    I, Aurelius Isidorus, scribe, issued the minutes.
