[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 22.2351
label:    P.Oxy. 22.2351
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     112 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (112 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht zwischen Phatres (Priester von Thoeris) und Totoes — Pachnumis und Totoes — Land — Anbau — Getreide
tm:       22222
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;22;2351
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐμίσθωσεν Φρατρῆς Ἀρθοώνιος τοῦ Ἀρθοώνιος τῶν ἀπʼ Ὀξυρύγχων πόλεως ἱερεύς
r.2    Θοήριδος καὶ Ἴ[σ]ιδος καὶ Σαράπιδος καὶ τῶν συννάων θεῶν μεγίστων Τοτοῇ τῷ καὶ Πλουτάρχῳ καὶ Παχνούμει ἀμφοτέροις Παχνούμιος
r.3    τοῦ Τοτοέως μητρὸς Θαήσιος καὶ Τοτοῇ
r.4    Πετσίριος τοῦ Τοτοέως μητρὸς Ταχνούμιος
r.5    τοῖ[ς] τρισὶ ἀπὸ κώμης Τανάεως Πέρσαι[ς] τῆς ἐπιγονῆς εἰς ἔτη τέσσαρα ἀπὸ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος
r.6    ἑκκαιδεκάτου ἔτους Τραιανοῦ Καίσαρος τοῦ
r.7    κυρίου ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων αὐτῷ καὶ τῷ
r.8    ἀδελφιδῷ αὐτοῦ Ἀρθοώνει Πετεύριος
r.9    περὶ τὴν αὐτὴν Τανάϊν ἐκ τοῦ Νικαίου
r.10   κλήρου ἀρούρας εἴκοσι τέσσαρας ὥστε σπεῖραι κατʼ ἔτος τὸ μὲν ἥμισυ πυρῷ τὸ δὲ ἕτερον ἥμισυ ξυλαμῆσαι ἄρακι ἐκφορίου
r.11   κατʼ ἔτος τῆς μὲν πυρῷ ἀνὰ πυροῦ ἀρτάβας
r.12   ὀκτὼ ἥμισυ τῆς δὲ ἐν ἄρακι ἀνὰ πυροῦ
r.13   ἀρτάβας δύο ἢ ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς εἴκοσι
r.14   τέσσαρας ἄρτων ἀρτάβης μιᾶς κατʼ ἔτος
r.15   παιδαρίοις ἀρτάβης ἥμισυ . ὁμολογοῦσι δὲ
r.16   οἱ μεμισθωμένοι ἐσχηκέναι καὶ παραμεμετρῆσθαι παρὰ τοῦ Φατρέως εἰς σπέρματα τῆς γῆς τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἔτους ἀδιαφόρους ἀρτάβας δώδεκα καὶ προσομολογοῦσι οἱ αὐτοὶ μεμισθωμένοι ὀφείλειν τῷ
r.17   Φατρῆτι ἀπὸ λοιπογραφίας ἐκφορίων τῶν
r.18   αὐτῶν ἀρουρῶν πυροῦ ἀρτάβας ἐνενήκοντα δύο ἐξ ὧν δώσουσι οἱ μεμισθωμένοι
r.19   ἐπὶ μὲν τὰ πρῶτα ἔτη τρία κατʼ ἔτος πυροῦ
r.20   ἀρτάβας εἴκοσι . τὰς δὲ λοιπὰς τῆς ὀφειλῆς
r.21   πυροῦ ἀρτάβας τριάκοντα δύο χαριεῖται
r.22   αὐτοῖς ὁ Φα[τ]ρῆς ἐὰνπερ εὐδωσιδικῶσι
r.23   οἱ μεμισθωμένοι ἐν τῇ ἀποδόσει τῶν
r.24   προκειμένων ἐκφορίων καὶ σπερμάτων καὶ
r.25   τῶν τῆς κ[α]τʼ ἔτος ἐπὶ τὸν τριετῆ χρόνον ὀφειλῆ[ς] κατʼ ἔτος ἀνὰ πυροῦ ἀρτάβας
r.26   εἴκοσι ἀκι[ν]δύνων παντὸς κινδύνου
r.27   τῶν τῆς γ[ῆ]ς δημοσίων ὄντων πρὸς τὸν
r.28   μεμισθω[κ]ότα τῶν δὲ καρπῶν κυριευέτω ἓως ἂ[ν] τὰ ὀφειλόμενα αὐτῷ κατʼ ἔτος κομίσ[ητ]αι. τῆς δὲ μισθώσεως
r.29   βεβαιουμέ[ν]ης ἀποδ[ό]τωσαν οἱ μεμισθωμένοι τῷ Φατρῆτι τὰ κατʼ ἔτος ὀφειλόμενα αὐτ[ίκ]α ἐν τῷ Παῦνι μηνὶ ἐφʼ ἅλω
r.30   Τανάεως [π]υρὸν νέον καθαρὸν ἄδολον
r.31   ἄκριθον κεκοσκινευμένον ὡς εἰς δημόσιον μετρούμενον μέτρῳ τετάρτῳ
r.32   παραλημπ[τι]κῷ αὐτοῦ Φάτρεως ἑαυτῷ
r.33   μετροῦντ[ος] ἢ διʼ οὗ ἐὰν αἵρηται. ἕξει δὲ ὁ
r.34   Φατρῆς το[ῦ] ἐγβησομένου κατʼ ἔτος ἀχύρου τὸ ἥμ[ισ]υ ὃ δʼ ἂν προσοφειλέσωσι ἀποτισάτω[σα]ν μεθʼ ἡμιολίας καὶ ἡ πρᾶξις
r.35   ἔστω Φα[τ]ρῇ ἔκ τε τῶν μεμισθωμένων ὄντων ἀλληλεγγύων εἰς ἔκτεισιν
r.36   καὶ ἐκ τῶν ὑπαρχόντων αὐτοῖς πάντων
r.37   καὶ ἐξ ἑνὸς καὶ ἐξ οὗ ἂν αὐτῶν αἵρηται.
r.38   ἐὰν δὲ ἀδωσιδικῶσι ἐν τῇ ἀποδόσει τῶν
r.39   προκειμένων ὡς ἐπάνω δεδήλωται ἔξεσται τῷ Φατρῇ ἐντὸς τοῦ χρόνου ἑτέροις
r.40   μεταμισθοῖν καὶ ἐκπράσσειν αὐτοὺς
r.41   τὰ ὅλα ὀφειλόμενα διὰ τὸ ἐπὶ τούτοις
r.42   ἑστάσθαι. κυρία ἡ μίσθωσις οὖσά μου
r.43   τοῦ Τοτοέως τοῦ καὶ Πλουτάρχου χειρὶ
r.44   καὶ εὐδοκῶ καὶ συναποδώσω ἐξ ἀλληλεγγύης ἐπὶ πᾶσι τοῖς προκειμένοις. ἔτους
r.45   ἑκκαιδεκάτου Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος
r.46   Νέρουα Τραιανοῦ Σεβαστοῦ Γερμανικοῦ
r.47   Δακικοῦ Φαῶφι δεκάτῃ. Παχνοῦμις
r.48   Παχνούμιος τοῦ Τοοέως μητρὸς Θαήσιος καὶ
r.49   Τοτοῆς Πετσίριος τοῦ Τοτοέως μητρὸς Ταχνούμιος ἀμφότεροι συνμεμισθώμεθα
r.50   ἐπὶ τὰ τέσσαρα ἔτη ἐκφορίου τῆς μὲν πυρῶι
r.51   ἀνὰ πυροῦ ἀρτάβας ὀκτὼ ἥμισυ τῆς δὲ ἄρακι ἀνὰ
r.52   πυροῦ ἀρτάβας δύο ἢ ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς εἴκοσι τέσσαρας καὶ συνέσχομεν τὰς τῶν σπερμάτων πυροῦ ἀρτάβας δέκα δύο καὶ ὀφείλομεν λοιπογραφίαν πυροῦ ἀρτάβας ἐνενήκοντα δύο ἐξ ὧν συναποδώσομεν
r.53   ἐν τῇ πρώτῃ τριετείᾳ κατʼ ἔτος πυροῦ
r.54   ἀρτάβας εἴκοσι τὰς δὲ λοιπὰς ἀρτάβας τριάκοντα χαριεῖται ὁ Φατρῆς ἐπὶ πᾶσι
r.55   τοῖς προκειμένοις οἷς καὶ εὐδοκοῦμεν. Θοῶνις
r.56   ὁ καὶ Ἀλκ … Παπίρι[ο]ς ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν μὴ εἰδότων
r.57   γράμμα[τα ] …
r.58   ἔτους κ Τραιανοῦ Καίσαρος τοῦ κυρίου μηνὸς
r.59   Καισαρείου β
r.60   ἐγδέδωκα ἀποχὴν τῶι Τοτοῇ καὶ Παχνοῦμει
r.61   τῶν ἐκφορίων [καὶ] λοιπογραφίας φόρων μηνὸς Σεβαστοῦ
r.62   περιδ … ηδ αὐτοῦ ἔτους

[TRANSLATION]
1     Phratres son of Arthoonis son of Arthoonis, of those from the city of Oxyrhynchus, priest
2     of Thoeris and Isis and Sarapis and the associated greatest gods, has leased to Totoes also called Plutarch and to Pachnoumis, both sons of Pachnoumis
3     son of Totoes, his mother being Thaesis, and to Totoes
4     son of Petsiris son of Totoes, his mother being Tachnoumis,
5     the three of them from the village of Tanais, Persians of the epigone, for four years from the present
6     sixteenth year of Trajan Caesar
7     the lord, from the property belonging to him and to
8     his nephew Arthoonis son of Peteuris,
9     around the same Tanais, from the allotment of Nikaios,
10    twenty-four arouras, so as to sow each year the one half with wheat and to crop the other half with arakos (vetch), at a rent
11    each year, of the (land sown) with wheat at the rate of wheat artabas
12    eight and a half, and of that in arakos at the rate of wheat
13    two artabas, or twenty-four drachmas of silver,
14    of loaves one artaba each year,
15    for the slave-boys half an artaba. The
16    lessees acknowledge that they have received and have had measured out to them by Phratres, for seed of the land of the present year, twelve artabas without distinction; and the same lessees further acknowledge that they owe to
17    Phratres, from the carried-over balance of the rents of the
18    same arouras, ninety-two artabas of wheat, of which the lessees shall pay
19    in the first three years, each year, of wheat
20    twenty artabas; and the remaining of the debt,
21    thirty-two artabas of wheat, Phratres will remit (as a favour)
22    to them, provided that the lessees keep their engagements faithfully
23    in the repayment of the
24    aforesaid rents and seed and
25    of the debt of each year over the three-year period, each year at the rate of twenty artabas
26    of wheat, free of all risk,
27    the public taxes on the land being borne by
28    the lessor; and let him have ownership of the crops until he recovers what is owed to him each year. And, the lease
29    being confirmed, let the lessees pay to Phratres the dues owed each year immediately in the month Pauni at the threshing-floor
30    of Tanais, new wheat, pure, unadulterated,
31    free of barley, sifted, as for the public granary, measured by the fourth (receiving) measure,
32    the receiving measure of Phratres himself, he measuring
33    for himself or through whomever he may choose. And let
34    Phratres have half of the chaff produced each year; and whatever they may owe in addition let them pay back with the half-as-much penalty; and the right of execution
35    shall belong to Phratres, both from the lessees, who are jointly liable for full payment,
36    and from all their property,
37    both from one and from whichever of them he may choose.
38    And if they fail to keep their engagements in the repayment of the
39    aforesaid, as has been declared above, it shall be permitted to Phratres within the period to lease to others
40    instead and to exact from them
41    the whole that is owed, because the agreement
42    has been made on these terms. The lease is valid, being in my hand,
43    that of Totoes also called Plutarch,
44    and I consent and will jointly repay out of the joint liability on all the aforesaid conditions. The 16th year
45    of the Emperor Caesar
46    Nerva Trajan Augustus Germanicus
47    Dacicus, Phaophi tenth. Pachnoumis
48    son of Pachnoumis son of Totoes, his mother being Thaesis, and
49    Totoes son of Petsiris son of Totoes, his mother being Tachnoumis, both of us have jointly leased
50    for the four years, the rent of the (land) in wheat
51    at the rate of eight and a half artabas of wheat, and of that in arakos at the rate of
52    two artabas of wheat, or twenty-four drachmas of silver; and we have received the twelve artabas of wheat of seed, and we owe a carried-over balance of ninety-two artabas of wheat, of which we will jointly repay
53    in the first three years, each year, twenty artabas
54    of wheat; and the remaining thirty artabas Phratres will remit on all
55    the aforesaid conditions, to which we also consent. Thoonis
56    also called Alk…, son of Papirius, I wrote on their behalf since they do not know
57    letters …
58    The 20th year of Trajan Caesar the lord, in the month
59    Kaisareios 2.
60    I have issued a receipt to Totoes and Pachnoumis
61    for the rents [and] carried-over balance of dues, in the month Sebastos
62    around … of the same year.
