[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 42.3057
label:    P.Oxy. 42.3057
name:     Letter — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    letters
date:     1 CE – 200 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Oxyrhynchos (1 CE – 200 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Ammonius an Apollonius — Hinweis auf Kleidungsstücke — Aufforderung zu Frieden und Freundschaft
tm:       25080
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;42;3057
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀμμώνιος Ἀπολλωνίωι τῶι
r.2    ἀδελφῶι χαίρειν.
r.3    ἐκομισάμην τὴν κεχιασμένην ἐπιστολὴν
r.4    καὶ τὴν ἱματιοφορίδα καὶ τοὺς φαινόλας καὶ τὰς
r.5    σύριγγας οὐ καλάς, τοὺς δὲ φαινόλας οὐχ ὡς
r.6    παλαιοὺς ἔλαβον ἀλλʼ εἴ τι μεῖζόν ἐστιν καινῶν διὰ προαίρεσιν. οὐ θέλω δέ σε, ἄδελφε, βαρύνειν με ταῖς συνεχέσι φιλανθρωπίαις,
r.7    … οὐ δυνάμενον ἀμείψασθαι, αὐτὸ δὲ μόνον
r.8    ἡμεῖς προαίρεσιν φιλικῆς διαθέσεως νομίζομεν παρεστακέναι σοι. παρακαλῶ
r.9    δέ σε, ἄδελφε, μηκέτι λόγον ποιεῖσθαι περὶ τῆς κλειδὸς τῆς μονοχώρου. οὐ γὰρ θέλω ὑμᾶς τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς ἕνεκα ἐμοῦ ἢ ἄλλου διαφοράν τινα ἔχειν. ὁμόνοιαν γὰρ καὶ
r.10   φιλαλληλίαν εὔχομαι ἐν ὑμῖν διαμένειν
r.11   ἵνʼ ἦτε ἀκαταλήρητοι καὶ μὴ ὁμοῖοι
r.12   ἡμῖν. ἡ γὰρ πεῖρα ἐπάγεταί με προτρέψασθαι ὑμᾶς εἰρηνεύειν καὶ μὴ διδόναι ἀφορμὰς ἑτέροις καθʼ ὑμῶν. πείρασαι οὖν καὶ διʼ
r.13   ἐμὲ τοῦτο ποιεῖν, χαρισάμενός μοι ὃ μεταξὺ ἐπιγνώσῃ ἀγαθόν. τὰ ἔρια ἂν ᾖς εἰληφὼς παρὰ Σαλβίου πλήρη καὶ ᾖ σοι ἀρεστά, ἀντίγραψόν μοι. γελοῖα δέ σοι γέγραφα
r.14   διὰ τῆς προτέρας ἐπιστολῆς, ἃ παραδέξῃ·
r.15   ἡ γὰρ ψυχὴ ἀνειμένη γείνεται, ὅταν τὸ
r.16   σὸν ὄνομα παρῇ, καὶ ταῦτα οὐκ ἔθος ἐχούσης ἠρεμεῖν διὰ τὰ ἐπερχόμενα, ἀλλʼ ὑποφέρει Λεωνᾶς. ἀσπάζομαί σε, δέσποτα, καὶ τοὺς
r.17   σ[ο]ὺς πάντας. ἔρρωσο, τιμιώτατε
r.18   Ἀπολλωνίωι Ἀπολλω ἐπισκέπτῃ ἀδελφῷ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Ammonios to Apollonios his
2     brother, greeting.
3     I received the cross-marked letter
4     and the clothes-bag and the cloaks and the
5     reed-pipes, not good ones; the cloaks I received not
6     as old ones but rather, if anything, better than new by deliberate choice. But I do not wish, brother, to burden you with continual kindnesses,
7     … being unable to repay, but only this:
8     we consider that you have shown us a disposition of friendly intent. And I urge
9     you, brother, no longer to make an issue about the key of the single-roomed lodging. For I do not wish you brothers to have any quarrel on account of me or anyone else. For concord and
10    mutual affection I pray to abide among you,
11    that you may be free from idle talk and not be like
12    us. For experience moves me to exhort you to keep peace and not to give occasions to others against you. So try, even for
13    my sake, to do this, granting me what in time you will recognize as good. As for the wool, if you have received it full from Salbios and it is satisfactory to you, write back to me. I have written you laughable things
14    in my former letter, which you will accept;
15    for the soul becomes relaxed whenever
16    your name is present, even though it is not accustomed to be at rest because of what befalls it, but Leonas endures. I greet you, master, and
17    all your people. Farewell, most honored one.
18    To Apollonios, Apollo… the visitor (?), brother.
