[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 50.3597
label:    P.Oxy. 50.3597
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     260 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (260 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht — Töpferei — Geld
tm:       15410
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;50;3597
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Σεπτιμίῳ Εὐδαίμονι γυμνασιάρχῳ βουλευτῇ τῆς Ὀξυρυγχιτῶν πόλεως
r.2    παρὰ Κλαυδιανοῦ ἰδίου κεραμέως. ἑκουσίως ἐπιδέχομαι μισθώσασθαι πρὸς τὸ ἐνεστὸς α ἔτος τὸ κατὰ σὲ τρίτον
r.3    μέρος οὗ ἔχεις κοινοῦ πρὸς τοὺς ἀδελφοὺς σου πρὸς ᾧ
r.4    ἔχετε χωρίῳ ὑμῶν περὶ Σέννιν κεραμίου οἰνικοῦ
r.5    κεράμου καὶ τῶν ἐν αὐτῷ καμίνων καὶ καμαρῶν καὶ χρηστηρίων πάντων, ἐπὶ τῷ με πλάσαι σοι ἀπὸ χειμερινῆς
r.6    πλάσεως κοῦφα Ὀξυρυγχιτικὰ τετράχοα καλούμενα
r.7    ἀριθμῷ ὀκτακισχίλια , διπλοκέραμα ἑκατόν , δίχοα τριάκοντα , τῶν σῶν παρεχόντων μοι ἐν τῷ κεραμείῳ χοῦν
r.8    μελάγγειον, ἀμμόγειον, χαυνόγειον καὶ τὰ ἄλλα ἐνχρῄζοντα
r.9    πάντα, λαμβάνοντός μου ὑπὲρ μισθοῦ τῆς μὲν πλάσεως
r.10   καὶ ὀπτήσεως καὶ πισσώσεως ὡς τῶν κούφων ἑκατὸν δραχμὰς
r.11   τριάκοντα δύο , γείνονται ἐπὶ τὸ αὐτὸ δραχμαὶ δισχίλιαι πεντακόσιαι ἑξήκοντα , ἀφʼ ὧν ὑπολογοῦνται ὑπὲρ μὲν ἀποφορῶν μου
r.12   τοῦ Κλαυδιανοῦ δραχμαὶ ἑπτακόσιαι . τὰς δὲ λοιπὰς δραχμὰς χιλίας ὀκτακοσίας ἑξήκοντα ἀπολήμψομαι παρὰ σοῦ ἀπὸ τοῦ ὄντος
r.13   μηνὸς Θὼθ ἕως Τῦβι καὶ αὐτοῦ Τῦβι κατὰ μῆνα δραχμὰς διακοσίας , Μεχεὶρ δραχμὰς τριακοσίας , Ἐπεὶφ Μεσορὴ πρὸς τὴν ὑπόκαυσιν
r.14   τὰς λοιπὰς δραχμὰς πεντακοσίας [ἑξήκοντα] . πρὸς δὲ καπνισμὸν τῶν
r.15   κούφων καὶ ὑπόκαυσιν παρέξεις μοι ἐν τῷ κεραμείῳ τὰ ἐνχρῄζοντα καύματα καὶ πρὸς τὴν πίσσωσιν τούτων τὴν ἐνχρῄζουσαν πίσσαν, σοῦ ἐπακολουθοῦντος τῇ πισσώσει. παρέξεις
r.16   δέ μοι ἀδιαλείπτως εἰς τὴν δεξαμενὴν τὰ ἐνχρῄζοντα ὕδατα. δι … δέ σοι χωρὶς τῶν προκειμένων κούφων ὠπτημένα
r.17   καὶ πεπισσωμένα ἀριθμ[ῷ] ἑκατόν , λαμβάνοντός μου ὑπὲρ
r.18   ἐκτάκτων ὄξους κεράμια δύο , φακῆς ἀρτάβην μίαν . βεβαιουμένης δέ μοι τῆς ἐπιδοχῆς ποιήσω τὴν τῶν κούφων
r.19   πλάσιν κ[αὶ] ὄπτησιν καὶ πίσσωσιν παρέχων ἐμαυτῷ πλάστας καὶ … ειαν πᾶσαν καὶ ἀποδώσω τὰ κοῦφα τῷ Ἐπεὶφ
r.20   μηνὶ ἐπὶ τῶν τοῦ κεραμείου ψυγμῶν ἀπὸ χειμερινῆς πλάσεως καλῶς ὠπτημένα καὶ πεπισσωμένα ἀπὸ χείλους ἄχρι πυθμένος εὐάρεστα μὴ πιδῶντα χωρὶς θεραπευσίμων καὶ
r.21   ἐπισινῶν καὶ ἐπὶ τέλει τοῦ χρόνου παραδώσω τὸ κεραμεῖον
r.22   κατὰ τὸ μισθούμενόν μοι μέρος [καθαρὸν] ἀπὸ σποδοῦ καὶ ὀστράκων,
r.23   τῆς πράξεώς σοι οὔσης ὡς καθήκει. κυρία ἡ ἐπιδοχὴ καὶ
r.24   ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα. ἔτους α Αὐτοκρατόρων Καισάρων
r.25   Τίτου Φουλβίου Ἰουνίου Μακριανοῦ καὶ Τίτου Φουλβίου Ἰουνίου
r.26   Κουιήτου Εὐσεβῶν Εὐτυχῶν Σεβαστῶν Θὼθ κε.
r.27   Σεπτίμιος Εὐδαίμων σεσημείωμαι
r.28   λοιπ ἐν αὐτῷ ἀπὸ λόγου ζ ἔτους
r.29   κοῦφα ρν, διπλοκέραμα κα, δίχοα γ,
r.30   πίσσης τάλαντον α.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Septimius Eudaimon, gymnasiarch, councillor of the city of the Oxyrhynchites,
2     from Klaudianos, private potter. Willingly I undertake to lease for the present 1st year, which is the third according to you,
3     the share which you have in common with your brothers in the
4     pottery-workshop you have around Sennis, of wine-jar
5     pottery, and the kilns in it and vaults and all appurtenances, on condition that I mould for you, from the winter
6     moulding, light-ware Oxyrhynchite vessels, the so-called four-choes ones,
7     eight thousand in number, double-jars one hundred, two-choes (jars) thirty, you providing me in the pottery-workshop with the earth
8     black earth, sand earth, loose earth, and all the other things needed,
9     I receiving as wage, of the moulding
10    and firing and pitching, at the rate of thirty
11    two drachmas per hundred light-vessels, total in all two thousand five hundred sixty drachmas, of which there are reckoned, on account of my rents
12    of Klaudianos, seven hundred drachmas. And the remaining one thousand eight hundred sixty drachmas I shall receive from you from the present
13    month Thoth until Tybi and Tybi itself, at the rate per month of two hundred drachmas, in Mecheir three hundred drachmas, in Epeiph and Mesore, toward the firing (under-burning),
14    the remaining five hundred [sixty] drachmas. And for the smoking of the
15    light-vessels and the firing you will provide me in the pottery-workshop with the needed fuel, and for the pitching of these the needed pitch, you attending the pitching. And you will provide
16    me also incessantly into the cistern with the needed waters. And … to you, apart from the aforesaid light-vessels, fired
17    and pitched, one hundred in number, I receiving for
18    extras two jars of vinegar, one artaba of lentils. And the undertaking being guaranteed to me, I shall do the
19    moulding and firing and pitching of the light-vessels, providing for myself moulders and all … and I shall deliver the light-vessels in the month Epeiph
20    on the cooling-floors of the pottery-workshop, from the winter moulding, well fired and pitched from lip to bottom, satisfactory, not leaking, apart from those needing repair and
21    damaged, and at the end of the term I shall hand over the pottery-workshop
22    according to the share leased to me, [clean] of ash and potsherds,
23    the right of execution against me being yours as is fitting. The undertaking is valid and
24    on being formally questioned I gave my assent. Year 1 of the Imperatores Caesares
25    Titus Fulvius Junius Macrianus and Titus Fulvius Junius
26    Quietus, Pious Fortunate Augusti, Thoth 25.
27    I, Septimius Eudaimon, have signed.
28    Remaining in it from the account of year 7
29    light-vessels 150, double-jars 21, two-choes (jars) 3,
30    of pitch one talent.
