[META]
id:       P.Oxy. 16.1837
label:    P.Oxy. 16.1837
name:     Letter — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    letters
date:     501 CE – 525 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Oxyrhynchos (501 CE – 525 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (geschäftlich) — NN an NN — Entführung — Frau
tm:       37844
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.oxy;16;1837
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    οὐδεὶς θέλων ἐγκαλέσαι ἢ μέμψασθαί τινων ἐν προοιμίοις τῆς ἐπιστολῆς γράφει
r.2    ἵνα μὴ ὁ ἀναγινώσκων σιανθῇ καὶ μὴ ἀναγνώσῃ τὴν ἐπιστολήν, ὑμεῖς δὲ τάξιν
r.3    διαλαλίας τὸ προοίμιον ἐγράψατε. πάντα δὲ τὰ κελευσθέντα ἡμῖν ποιοῦμεν.
r.4    εἰσὶν δὲ τὰ κεράτια τοῦ κυρίου Μηνᾶ ϙζ 𐅷. καὶ περὶ ῥαφανελαίου χρείαν ἔ[χω] δύο ἥμ[ισυ]
r.5    ἀγγείων. περὶ δὲ τῆς … υ τῆς Μακαρίας καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἐνταῦθα εἶπον ὑμῖ[ν ὅ] τι Πραλῆ …
r.6    τις ὁ σινγουλάριός φησιν. ἀνεστάτησεν αὐτὴν καὶ ἔχει αὐτὴν ἐν τῷ οἴκῳ αὐτοῦ
r.7    καὶ οὐ συγχωρεῖ αὐτὴν ἐλθεῖν πρὸς ἐμὲ λέγων ὅτι ἐλευθέρα ἐστίν, ἀλλὰ
r.8    … κ … ν εἰπεῖν τῷ σοφωτάτῳ σχολαστικῷ Ἀγριππακῷ, ὑποβάλλει τῷ μεγαλοπρεπεστάτῳ αὐτὸς ἀσφαλ … ε … αὐτὴν ἵνα τελείως ἀσχημονήσῃ …
r.9    ὡς θέλεις καὶ ὡς οἶδες ποίησον, μέντοι μετὰ σπουδῆς. πέμπω γὰρ αὐτὴν
r.10   εἰς ἀπόκρισιν. πέμπει καὶ ὑπηρέτην πρὸς
r.11   τό, φησίν, μὴ ἕτερα ἀσθενεῖν αὐτήν.
r.12   εἰ δὲ κελεύεις, καὶ τῷ κυρίῳ Ἀφουᾷ τῷ βοηθῷ τῶν κομμέντων γράψον περὶ τούτου. ὁ πρότερον προσκυνηθεὶς παρʼ ἐμοῦ προ[σ]κύνει τὸν κύριον Ἰωάννην καὶ Γεώργιν τὸν ἐξκέπτορα
r.13   καὶ τὸν κύριον Ἀνοῦπ . εἶπον δὲ τῷ ἀδελφῷ τοῦ κυρίου Ἀνοῦπ ὅτι σὺν θεῷ ὑγιαίνετε. μικρὰ
r.14   ἐρεβίνθια ἀπόστειλον,, τὸν δὲ Μηνᾶν τὸν φλαγο ἐξ ἐμοῦ προσκύνει καὶ εἰπὲ αὐτῷ ἀποστεῖλαί μοι τὰ προμάξια. ἡ δούλη ὑμῶν προσκυνεῖ ὑμᾶς. ὁ θεὸς ἀξιώσει ἡμᾶς προσκυνεῖν ἐν ὑγείᾳ.
r.15   δεπότῃ … πάντα λαμπροτάτῳ πάσης …

[TRANSLATION]
1     No one wishing to accuse or blame anyone writes (so) in the opening of the letter,
2     lest the reader be vexed and not read the letter; but you wrote, as the opening, the manner
3     of a (formal) report. But all that has been ordered us we do.
4     The carats of the lord Menas are 97⅔. And concerning radish-oil I ha[ve] need of two and a half
5     vessels. And concerning the … of Makaria, even from the people here I told you that Prale…,
6     a certain singularis, says he carried her off and keeps her in his house
7     and does not allow her to come to me, saying that she is free, but
8     … to speak to the most learned scholasticus Agrippakos; he submits to the most magnificent (official) himself … her, that she may be utterly disgraced …
9     do as you wish and as you know (best), but with haste. For I am sending her
10    in answer. He sends also a servant to
11    the (effect), he says, that she be not otherwise ill.
12    And if you order, write also to the lord Aphouas, the assistant of the commentariensis, about this. He who was formerly greeted by me, greet the lord John and George the exceptor
13    and the lord Anoup. And I told the brother of the lord Anoup that, God willing, may you be well. Small
14    chickpeas send; and Menas the … greet from me and tell him to send me the promaxia. Your servant greets you. May God count us worthy to do reverence in health.
15    to the master … in all things most illustrious of all …
