[META]
id:       P.PETAUS 84
label:    P.PETAUS 84
name:     Letter — Ptolemais Hormu (Arsinoites)
genre:    letters
date:     185 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Ptolemais Hormu (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Ptolemais Hormu (Arsinoites) (185 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Schreiben (amtlich) — Dorfschreiber Petaus an den Strategen Apollonios — Ablösung eines Briefträgers auf Bitte von Kerkesucha Orus — Abschrift des Briefes — Ablösung im Turnus der einzelnen Dörfer
tm:       8786
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.petaus;;84
lat:      29.206382
lon:      30.968603

[GREEK]
r.1    Ἀπολλωνίῳ στρατηγῷ Ἀρσινοίτου Ἡρακλείδου μερίδος
r.2    παρὰ Π[ε]ταῦτος κωμογραμματέως Πτολεμαίδος Ὅρμου καὶ ἄλλων κωμῶν. αἰτούμενος ὑπὸ σοῦ ὄνομα εἰς ἐπιστολαφορίαν ἀντὶ Πετεσούχου Ὀρσενού[φε]ως
r.3    ἀπὸ κώμης Κερκεσούχων Ὄρους ἀκολούθως τοῖς ἐπιδοθεῖσ[ί] σοι βιβλιδίοις ὧν ἐστιν ἀντίγραφον· Ἀπολλωνίῳ στρατηγῷ Ἀρσινοίτου Ἡρακλείδου μερίδ[ο]ς
r.4    παρὰ Ἁρποκρᾶ Σισόιτος καὶ Ὥρου Ὥρου καὶ Ἁρπαήσεως Ὀννώφρεως
r.5    καὶ τῶν λοιπῶν πρε[σ]βυτέρων κώμης Κερκεσούχων Ὄρους. ὁ κα[τ]ὰ καιρὸν
r.6    ἀναδιδόμενος ἐπισ[το]λαφόρος ἐπὶ τῆς ἡμετέρας κωμογραμμ[α]τείας
r.7    ἐκ περιτροπῆς λειτουργεῖ. ἐπεὶ οὖν πάλαι μὲν ἀπὸ ἐποικίου Ἡρακ[λ]έωνος
r.8    ἦν μέχρι ζ ἔτους, μετηνέχθη δὲ εἰς Σύρων κώμην οὖ[σ]αν τῆ[ς] κωμογραμματείας μέχρι ιβ ἔτους, καὶ ἀπὸ τοῦ ἑξῆς ιγ ἔτους μετηνέχθη εἰς τὴν ἡμετέραν κώμην καὶ μέχρι νῦν ἡμεῖς παρέσχομεν ἔτεσιν ἤδη δώδεκα ,
r.9    ἀξιοῦμεν ὀλίγοι ὄντες καὶ μόλις ἐξισχύοντες τὰς ἄλλας λειτουργίας
r.10   ὑφίστασθαι πλείστας οὔσας, ἐάν σοι δόξῃ κατὰ τὸ ἔθος κελεῦσαι τῷ κωμογραμματεῖ ἀναδραμεῖν ἐπὶ τὰς προτέρας κώμας εἰς τὸ ἐκεῖθεν τὸν ἐπιστολαφόρον δοθῆναι. κατὰ χρόνους γὰρ πάλιν καὶ εἰς τὴν ἡμετέραν
r.11   κώμην καταντήσει. ἔτους κε Μάρκου Αὐρηλίου Κομμόδου Ἀντωνείνου
r.12   Σεβαστοῦ Εὐσεβοῦς Φαμενὼθ ιθ. ἕως τούτου τὸ βιβλίδιον —
r.13   δίδωμι τὸν ὑπογεγραμμένον ὄντα εὔπορον καὶ ἐπιτήδειον. ἔστι δέ·
r.14   Μιῦσις Ὀρσενούφεως ἀπὸ ἐποικίου Ἡρακλέωνος ἔχων πόρον δραχμῶν υ.
r.15   ἔτους κε Μάρκου Αὐρη[λ]ίου Κομμόδου Ἀντωνείνου Σεβαστοῦ Εὐσεβο[ῦ]ς Φαμενὼθ κ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Apollonios, strategos of the division of Herakleides of the Arsinoite nome,
2     from Petaus, village-scribe of Ptolemais Hormou and other villages. Being asked by you for a name for the courier-service in place of Petesouchos son of Orsenouphis
3     from the village of Kerkesoucha Orous, in accordance with the memoranda submitted to you, of which this is a copy: To Apollonios, strategos of the division of Herakleides of the Arsinoite nome,
4     from Harpokras son of Sisois and Horos son of Horos and Harpaesis son of Onnophris
5     and the rest of the elders of the village of Kerkesoucha Orous. The courier
6     appointed from time to time in our village-scribe's district
7     performs the liturgy in rotation. Since, then, of old it was from the hamlet of Herakleon
8     until the 7th year, but was transferred to Syron Kome, which belongs to the village-scribe's district, until the 12th year, and from the following 13th year it was transferred to our village, and up to now we have provided it for twelve years already,
9     we request, being few and scarcely able to sustain the other liturgies,
10    which are very many, that, if it seem good to you, according to custom you order the village-scribe to revert to the former villages, so that from there the courier be provided. For in due time it will again come round
11    also to our village. In the 25th year of Marcus Aurelius Commodus Antoninus
12    Augustus Pius, Phamenoth 19. Thus far the memorandum. —
13    I give the man subscribed below, being well-off and suitable. He is:
14    Miysis son of Orsenouphis from the hamlet of Herakleon, having means of 400 drachmas.
15    In the 25th year of Marcus Aurelius Commodus Antoninus Augustus Pius, Phamenoth 20.
