[META]
id:       P.SAKAON 1
label:    P.SAKAON 1
name:     Documentary papyrus — Theadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    documents
date:     310 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Theadelphia (Arsinoites) (310 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Deklaration — Zensus — Personen — Eid — Unterschrift des Censitors Ulpius Alexander
tm:       13025
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.sakaon;;1
lat:      29.348065
lon:      30.49696

[GREEK]
r.1    ὑπατείας Τατίου Ἀνδρονίκου καὶ Πομπηίου Πρόβου τῶν λαμπροτάτων ἐπάρχων, πρὸ γ καλανδῶν Μαρτίων, ἥτις ἐστὶν Φαμενὼθ γ.
r.2    Οὐλπίῳ Ἀλεξάνδρῳ κηνσίτορι Ἑπτανομίας
r.3    παρὰ Αὐρηλίου Σακαῶνος Σαταβοῦτος μητρὸς [Θερ]μοῦτις ἀπὸ κώμης Θεαδελφίας η πάγου τοῦ Ἀρσινοΐτου νομοῦ.
r.4    ἀκολούθως θείῳ προστάγματι τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν Γαλερίου Οὐαλερίου Μαξιμιανοῦ καὶ Οὐαλερίου Λικιννιανοῦ
r.5    Λικιννίου Σεβαστῶν καὶ Γαλερίου Οὐαλερίου Μαξιμίνου καὶ Φλαουίου Οὐαλερίου Κωνσταντίνου υἱῶν Σεβαστῶν τῶν
r.6    ἐπιφανεστάτων Καισάρων, ἀπογράφομαι παρὰ σοί, τῷ καταπεμφθέντι κηνσίτορι ὑπὸ τῆς οὐρανίου αὐτῶν τύχης·
r.7    ὑποτελής ἐμαυτὸν μὲν τὸν Σακαῶνα ἐτῶν με τεσσεράκοντα πέντε
r.8    ὑποτελής Ἀεὶλ υἱόν μου ἐτῶν ιϛ δέκα ἕξ
r.9    ὑποτελής Παῆσιν ἀδελφόν μου ἐτῶν νε πεντήκοντα πέντε
r.10   ὑποτελής Ἀμμώνιον υἱὸν Λειοῦτος ἀδελφοῦ μου ἐτῶν ιθ δέκα ἐννέα
r.11   ὑποτελής Αὐνῆν ἄλλον ἀδελφόν μου ἐτῶν μη τεσσεράκοντα ὀκτώ
r.12   ὑποτελής Κηλητὴν Καῆτ πρὸς γένους μου ἐτῶν ν πεντήκοντα
r.13   ὑποτελής Σαρμάτην υἱὸν αὐτοῦ ἐτῶν ιϛ δέκα ἕξ
r.14   ὑποτελής Ἀλύπιον Ἡρώδου πρὸς γένους μου ἐτῶν λε τριάκοντα πέντε
r.15   ὑποτελής Ἥρωνα υἱὸν αὐτοῦ ἐτῶν ιβ δώδεκα
r.16   οἰκῶ δʼ ἐν ἰδίᾳ οἰκίᾳ τῆς κώμης, μηδενός μοι συνοικοῦντος ἐκ πολλοῦ χρόνου τὸ παράπαν,
r.17   καὶ ὄμνυμι θεοὺς ἅπαντας καὶ τύχην καὶ νίκην τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν τῶν ἀνικήτων βασιλέων μηδένα ἀποκεκρυφέναι.
r.18   Αὐρήλιος Σακαῶν ὤμοσα θεοὺς ἅπαντας καὶ τὸν θεῖον ὅρκον ἀληθῆ με τὴν ἀπογραφὴν πεποιῆσθαι, καὶ ἐπέδωκα. Αὐρήλιος
r.19   Κ[ό]νναρος ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἀγραμμάτου.
r.20   γείνονται ὑποτελεῖς ἐννέα .

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the consulship of Tatius Andronicus and Pompeius Probus, the most illustrious prefects, on the 3rd day before the Kalends of March, which is Phamenoth 3.
2     To Ulpius Alexander, censitor of the Heptanomia,
3     from Aurelius Sakaon son of Satabous, his mother being Thermouthis, from the village of Theadelphia of the 8th pagus of the Arsinoïte nome.
4     In accordance with the divine ordinance of our lords Galerius Valerius Maximianus and Valerius Licinianus
5     Licinius, Augusti, and Galerius Valerius Maximinus and Flavius Valerius Constantinus, sons of the Augusti,
6     the most illustrious Caesars, I register before you, the censitor sent down by their heavenly fortune:
7     as liable-to-tax, myself, Sakaon, aged 45, forty-five;
8     as liable-to-tax, Aeil my son, aged 16, sixteen;
9     as liable-to-tax, Paesis my brother, aged 55, fifty-five;
10    as liable-to-tax, Ammonios son of Leious my brother, aged 19, nineteen;
11    as liable-to-tax, Aunes my other brother, aged 48, forty-eight;
12    as liable-to-tax, Keletes son of Kaes, my kinsman, aged 50, fifty;
13    as liable-to-tax, Sarmates his son, aged 16, sixteen;
14    as liable-to-tax, Alypios son of Herodes, my kinsman, aged 35, thirty-five;
15    as liable-to-tax, Heron his son, aged 12, twelve.
16    And I dwell in my own house of the village, no one at all living with me for a long time past,
17    and I swear by all the gods and by the fortune and victory of our lords the invincible kings that I have concealed no one.
18    I, Aurelius Sakaon, have sworn by all the gods and by the divine oath that I have made the registration truly, and I have submitted it. I, Aurelius
19    Konnaros, wrote on his behalf, he being illiterate.
20    Total: nine persons liable to tax.
