[META]
id:       P.SAKAON 39
label:    P.SAKAON 39
name:     Petition — Theadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     318 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Theadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Theadelphia (Arsinoites) (318 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Aurelius Sakaon an den praepositus pagi Aurelius Olympios — Diebstahl — Kleinvieh
tm:       13057
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.sakaon;;39
lat:      29.348065
lon:      30.49696

[GREEK]
r.1    Αὐρηλίῳ Ὀλυμπίῳ πραιποσίτῳ [πά]γου η
r.2    παρὰ Αὐρηλίου Σακαῶνος Σαταβοῦτος ἀπὸ κώμης Θεαδελφίας. μισθωτοῦ μου τυγχάνοντος θρεμμάτων Ῥούφου ἀπὸ πριμιπιλαρίων καὶ τούτων βοσκομένων ἐν πεδίῳ Βερνικίδος Αἰγιαλοῦ τοῦ ὑπὸ σὲ πάγου, οὐκ οἶδʼ ὅπως
r.3    κατὰ τὸν Θὼθ μῆνα τινὲς κακοῦργοι ἐπιστάντες
r.4    ἐκεῖσε διὰ νυκτὸς ἔνθα τὰ θρέμματα
r.5    ἐβόσκετο καὶ ἀπεσύλησαν ἐξ αὐτῶν
r.6    αἶγας τὸν ἀριθμὸν δέκα ἕξ . ἐμοῦ τοίνυν πολυπραγμονοῦντος κατελαβόμην Πέτρον υἱὸν Μαρίας
r.7    οἰκοῦντα ἐν ἐποικίῳ Πτολεμαίου καὶ Ἰσίδωρ[ον] τὸν
r.8    ἀπὸ ἐποικίου Μύρωνος καὶ αὐτὸν ὡς ξένον οἰκοῦντα
r.9    ἐν τῷ αὐτῷ ἐποικίῳ Πτολεμαίου τοῦτο ὑπʼ αὐτῶν πεπλημελῆσθαι. ἀναγκαίως ἀνόσιον πρᾶγμα ὀδυρόμενος ἐπιδίδωμί σοι τάδε τὰ βιβλία, αὐτὰ ταῦτα μαρτυρόμενος, ἀξιῶν τούτους μετακαλέσασθαί σε
r.10   καὶ πρῶτον μὲν ἅπερ ἀπεσύλησαν ἀποκατασταθῆναί μοι ποιήσῃς, [ἔ]πειτα καὶ ἐκδικίας τῆς προσηκούσης κατὰ τοὺς νόμους τυχεῖν. διευτύχει.
r.11   ὑπατείας τῶν δεσποτῶν ἡμῶν Λικινίου Σεβαστοῦ
r.12   τὸ ε καὶ Κρίσπου τοῦ ἐπιφανεστάτου Καίσαρος τὸ α, Θὼθ ι.
r.13   Αὐρήλιος Σακαῶν ἐπιδέδωκα. Αὐρήλιος
r.14   Μάξιμος ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτοῦ ἀγραμμάτου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Aurelius Olympius, praepositus of the 8th pagus,
2     from Aurelius Sakaon son of Satabous from the village of Theadelphia. As I happen to be the lessee of the flocks of Rufus, of the rank of former chief centurions (primipilarii), and as these were grazing in the plain of Bernikis Aigialou in the pagus under you, I do not know how,
3     during the month of Thoth certain evildoers came
4     upon that place by night, where the flocks
5     were grazing, and they plundered from them
6     sixteen goats. Therefore, when I made careful inquiry, I apprehended Petros son of Maria,
7     living in the hamlet of Ptolemaios, and Isidor[os] the man
8     from the hamlet of Myron, and himself dwelling as a stranger
9     in the same hamlet of Ptolemaios — (I found) that this had been committed by them. Necessarily, lamenting the impious deed, I submit to you these documents, calling these same things to witness, requesting that you summon these men,
10    and that first you cause those things which they plundered to be restored to me, and then that I obtain the fitting legal redress according to the laws. Farewell.
11    In the consulship of our masters Licinius Augustus
12    for the 5th time and Crispus the most illustrious Caesar for the 1st time, Thoth 10.
13    I, Aurelius Sakaon, have submitted (this). I, Aurelius
14    Maximus, wrote on his behalf, as he is illiterate.
