[META]
id:       P.SARAP 26
label:    P.SARAP 26
name:     Contract — Magdola Mire (Hermopolites)
genre:    contracts
date:     125 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Magdola Mire (Hermopolites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Magdola Mire (Hermopolites) (125 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Pacht
tm:       17043
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.sarap;;26
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    Μυσία Πτολεμαίου μετὰ κυρίου Κορνηλίου Μουσαίου
r.2    καὶ Χενῦρις Ἀρείου μετὰ κυρίου Παροδίωνος
r.3    Χαιρήμονος Πεκύσι Καλήους ἀπὸ κώμης
r.4    Ἐνσὺ καταγινομένῳ ἐν Μαγδώλοις Μιρὴ γεωργῶι χαίρειν.
r.5    μεμισθώκαμέν σοι πρὸς μόνον τὸ ἐνεστὸς ι ἔτος Ἁδριανοῦ
r.6    Καίσαρος τοῦ κυρίου τὰς ὑπαρχούσας ἡμῖν
r.7    [κ]οινῶς περὶ Βώου κατὰ τὰ μέρη τοῦ Περὶ πόλιν κάτω ἐκ τῶν
r.8    Δικαίου καὶ Μενίππου κλήρων ἀρούρας ὀκτὼ τῆς φανησομένης
r.9    ἐν σπόρωι εἰς ξυλαμὴν ἄρακος εἰς χλωροφαγίαν καὶ κοίτην
r.10   προβάτων τῶν τοῦ Ἀνουβίωνος Σαραπίωνος, φόρου ἑκάστης
r.11   ἀρούρης ἀργυρίου δραχμῶν εἴκοσι ἕξ, γίνονται ἑκάστης ἀρούρης ἀργυρίου δραχμαὶ κϛ
r.12   ἃς καὶ ἀποδώσεις ἡμῖν ἐν τῶι Ἐπεὶφ μηνὶ τοῦ …
r.13   ἀνυπερθέτως καὶ δώσομεν τῆς ἀγέλης ἡμιωβέλιον
r.14   καὶ ἄχυρον, τῶν δημοσίων πάντων ὄντων πρὸς
r.15   ἡμᾶς τὰς κατοίκους. ἔτους δεκάτου Αὐτοκράτορος
r.16   [Καίσα]ρο[ς] Τραιανοῦ Ἁδριανοῦ Σεβαστοῦ Θὼτ ιη. Χενῦρις
r.17   [Ἁρείο]υ μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἀνδρὸς Παρροδίωνος Χαιρήμωνος
r.18   μεμίσθωκα καθὼς πρόκειται. Ἡρωδης Ἀλεξα ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς
r.19   μὴ εἰδυίης γράμματα. Μυσία Πτολεμίου μεμίσθωκα καθὼς
r.20   π[ρό]κ[ει]ται. Κορνήλιος Μουσαίου ἔγραψα ὑπὲρ αὐτῆς
r.21   μὴ εἰδυίης γράμματα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Mysia daughter of Ptolemaios, with her guardian Cornelius son of Mousaios,
2     and Chenyris daughter of Areios, with her guardian Parodion
3     son of Chairemon, to Pekysis son of Kaleous, from the village
4     of Ensy, residing in Magdola Mire, a farmer, greeting.
5     We have leased to you, for only the present 10th year of Hadrian
6     Caesar the lord, the (lands) belonging to us
7     jointly around Boos, in the districts of the Peri Polin Kato, from the
8     allotments of Dikaios and Menippos, eight arouras, whichever shall appear
9     under sowing, for a crop of chickling-vetch for green fodder and for a fold
10    of the sheep of Anoubion son of Sarapion, at a rent for each
11    aroura of twenty-six drachmas of silver, making for each aroura 26 drachmas of silver,
12    which you shall also pay to us in the month Epeiph of the …
13    without delay; and we shall give of the flock a half-obol
14    and chaff, all the public taxes being upon
15    us, the katoikoi. In the tenth year of the Emperor
16    [Caesa]r[s] Trajan Hadrian Augustus, Thoth 18. Chenyris
17    daughter of [Areio]s, with my guardian, my husband, Parrodion son of Chairemon,
18    have leased as is aforesaid. Herodes son of Alexa(?) wrote on her behalf,
19    she not knowing letters. Mysia daughter of Ptolemaios, I have leased as
20    is aforesaid. Cornelius son of Mousaios, I wrote on her behalf,
21    she not knowing letters.
