[META]
id:       P.SAKAON 31
label:    P.SAKAON 31
name:     Documentary papyrus — Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites)
genre:    documents
date:     280 CE – 281 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus from Ptolemais Euergetis (Arsinoites) (280 CE – 281 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Protokoll — Prozeß — Diebstahl — Vieh — Fluchtgefahr des Diebes
tm:       13049
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.sakaon;;31
lat:      29.3149635
lon:      30.8399565

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτ[ο]υς ϛ τοῦ κυ[ρίο]υ ἡμῶν Μάρκ[ο]υ Αὐρηλίο[υ Π]ρόβου Σεβα[στοῦ, ἐν τῷ Ἀρσι]νοΐτῃ, πρὸ βήματος.
r.2    Ἰσίδωρος ἀπὸ συνηγοριῶν εἶπεν· Ἄρτεμις ἐντυγχάνει δύο μηνῶν κ … νη καὶ
r.3    οἱ παῖδες οἱ ἀφήλικες προσεδρεύουσίν σου τῷ δικαστηρίῳ. προ[σ]εδρεύουσιν δὲ ἐκ κελεύσεως τοῦ διασημοτάτο[υ] ἡγεμόνος, ἀναπέμψαντος
r.4    τὸ πρᾶγμα ἐπὶ σέ, ἵνα τὴν βίαν κωλύσῃς. τὴν δὲ βίαν πολλάκις παρεθέμεθα διὰ τῶν σῶν ὑπομνημάτων. Συρίων γὰρ μετὰ θάνατον
r.5    τοῦ πατρὸς τῶν παίδων ἐποφθαλμιάσας τοῖς θρέμμασιν τοῖς ὑπὸ
r.6    τοῦ πατρὸς αὐτῶν καταλειφθεῖσιν, ποιμὴν γὰρ ἐτύγχανεν, ἑξήκοντα ὄντα τὸν ἀριθμὸν ἥρπασεν. καὶ σὺ ἀγανακτήσας ἐκέλευσας
r.7    αὐτῷ τῷ Συρίωνι παραστῆσαι τοὺς ποιμένας μεθʼ [ὧ]ν ἐποίμαινεν ὁ τῶν
r.8    παίδων πατὴρ καὶ Αὐνῆν καὶ τὸν ἀδελφὸν αὐτοῦ, ἵ[νʼ] οὕτως μηδεμιᾶς
r.9    ἀμφισβητήσεως οὔσης ἀποκατασταθῇ τοῖς παιδίοις τὰ πρόβατα. ἀλλʼ ὅρα τί
r.10   διαπράττεται Συρίων· ἀντιπράττει τοῖς ὑπὸ σοῦ κελευσθεῖσιν καὶ
r.11   τοῖς ὑπὸ τῆς ἡγεμονίας. καὶ διὰ τοῦτο καὶ νῦν μαρτυρόμεθα ὅπως ἤδη ποτὲ κελεύσῃς αὐτὸν ἀχθῆναι καὶ ἀποδοῦναι τοῖς παιδίοις ἃ ἥρπασεν. ὁ ἐπίτροπος εἶπεν· ἐπειδὴ Συρίων εἰς τὰ ἀναγκαιότερα τὰ τῷ ταμιείῳ διαφέροντα ἀπέσταλται, ὁσονουδέπω ἐπανελθὼν ἀποκριθήσεται πρὸς τὰ
r.12   ἐπιφερόμενα αὐτῷ. Ἰσίδωρος ἀπὸ συνηγοριῶν εἶπεν· ἐὰν οὖν φυγοδικήσῃ;
r.13   Αὐρήλιος Ἡρακλείδη[ς ὁ] κράτιστος ἐπιστράτηγος εἶπεν· ἐντευχθεὶς ὅρον δώσω.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 6 of our lord Marcus Aurelius Probus Augustus, in the Arsinoite, before the tribunal.
2     Isidoros, of the advocates, said: Artemis for two months … has petitioned, and
3     the orphan children are in attendance upon your court. They are in attendance by order of the most eminent prefect, who referred
4     the matter to you, that you may restrain the violence. And this violence we have repeatedly set forth through your records. For Syrion, after the death
5     of the children's father, casting a covetous eye on the flocks that had been left
6     by their father — for he happened to be a shepherd — seized sixty in number. And you, being indignant, ordered
7     Syrion himself to produce the shepherds with whom the children's father used to pasture,
8     both Aunes and his brother, so that thus, no
9     dispute existing, the sheep might be restored to the children. But see what
10    Syrion is doing: he acts against what has been ordered by you and
11    by the prefecture. And for this reason now too we call to witness that at last you may order him to be brought and to restore to the children what he seized. The procurator said: Since Syrion has been dispatched on the more urgent matters pertaining to the treasury, as soon as he returns he will answer to
12    the charges brought against him. Isidoros, of the advocates, said: What then if he evades the suit?
13    Aurelius Herakleides, the most excellent epistrategos, said: When petitioned I will give a ruling.
