[META]
id:       P.STRAS 2.87
label:    P.STRAS 2.87
name:     Receipt — Krokodilopolis (Pathyrites)
genre:    receipts
date:     107 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Krokodilopolis (Pathyrites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Receipt from Krokodilopolis (Pathyrites) (107 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf (Hausteil) — Quittung (Steuern)
tm:       104
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.stras;2;87
lat:      29.3149635
lon:      30.8399565

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ι, Μεχεὶρ θ. ἀπέδοτο
r.2    Πατῆς Θοτορταίου
r.3    Πανεβχούνει Τοτοέους
r.4    τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῷ μέρος ἥμισυ
r.5    οἰκίας ὠικοδομημένης
r.6    πηχῶν στερεῶν ὀκτὼ.
r.7    πήχεις τέσσαρας
r.8    χαλκοῦ τάλαντων δύο.
r.9    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ Πτολεμαίου θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων ἔτους ι, ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν, μηνὸς Μεχεὶρ θ. ἐν Κροκοδίλων
r.10   πόλει, ἐπὶ Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου τῆς ἄνω τοπαρχίας τοῦ Παθυρίτου. ἀπέδοτο Πατῆς Θοτορταίου Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς τῶν ἐκ Παθύρεως ὡς ἐτῶν ξ εὐμεγέθης μελίχρως τετανὸς ἀναφάλανθος ἡσυχῆ μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ φαλάνθωι δεξιῶι ἀπὸ τῆς ὑπαρχούσης αὐτῶι καὶ Πατέπωι τῶι ἀδελφῶι ἐν τῆι μέσηι μερίδι Παθύρεως οἰκίας ὠικοδομημένης καὶ τῆς
r.11   προσούσης αὐλῆς πηχῶν στερεῶν ὀκτὼ τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῶι μέρος ἥμισυ πήχεις στερεοὺς τέσσερας, γείτονες ὅλης τῆς οἰκίας· νότου οἰκία Πανεβχούνιος τοῦ Πατοῦτος, βορρᾶ οἰκία
r.12   Κανώπου τοῦ Κονούφιος, ἧς κρατοῦσιν οἱ υἱοί, ἀπηλιώτου ῥύμη βασιλική, λιβὸς οἰκία Πανεβχούνιος τοῦ Τοτοέους τοῦ ὠνουμένου καὶ μέρος οἰκίας Ἁρπῶτος τοῦ Παβῦτος, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι γείτονες
r.13   πάντοθεν, συνεπιγραφομένου τῆι ὠνῆι καὶ πράσει Ὥρου τοῦ τοῦ προγεγραμμένου Πατῆτος πρεσβυτέρου υἱοῦ, ὡς ἐτῶν λη μέσου μελιχρόου ὑποκλάστου μακροπροσώπου εὐθυρίνου ὦς ἀριστερὸν
r.14   τετρωμένου. ἐπρίατο Πανεβχοῦνις Τοτοέους Πέρσης τῆς ἐπιγονῆς τῶν ἐκ τῆς αὐτῆς Παθύρεως ὡς ἐτῶν ξ ἐλάσσων ἢ μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν ἀναφάλανθος ἡσυχῆ
r.15   χαλκοῦ ταλάντων δύο. προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν πάντων Πατῆς ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Πανεβχοῦνις ὁ πριάμενος.
r.16   Πανίσκος κεχρημάτικα. ἔτους ι, Μεχεὶρ θ.
r.17   ἔτους ι, Φαμενὼθ ε. τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Κροκοδίλων πόλει τράπεζαν, ἐφʼ ἧ[ς ] … ς, ι ἐγκυκλίου κατὰ τὴν παρὰ Πανίσκου
r.18   τοῦ τελώνου διαγραφήν, ὑφʼ ἣν ὑπογράφει Παγκράτης ὁ ἀντιγραφεύς, Πανεβχ[οῦνις Τοτο]έους τέλος ὠνῆς οἰκίας ὠικοδ[ο]μημένης
r.19   καὶ τῆς προσούσης αὐλῆς ἀπὸ πηχῶν η πηχῶν στερεῶν δ ἐν τῆι μέ[σηι μερίδι] Παθύρεως, ἧς αἱ γειτνίαι δεδήλωνται
r.20   διὰ τῆς προκειμένης συγγραφῆς, ἣν ἠγόρασεν παρὰ Πατῆτος τοῦ Θ[οτορταίου] χαλκοῦ ταλάντων δύο τέλος οὗ ἀλλαγὴ χιλίας διακο[σ]ίας,
r.21   γίνονται δραχμαὶ Ασ. Πανίσκος τραπεζίτης. Αυπε.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 10, Mecheir 9. There sold,
2     Pates son of Thotortaios,
3     to Panebchounis son of Totoes,
4     the half share falling to him
5     of a built house,
6     of eight solid cubits,
7     four cubits,
8     for two talents of copper.
9     In the reign of Cleopatra and Ptolemy, the gods Philometores Soteres, year 10, in the priesthoods of the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros, those who are and who exist, in the month Mecheir 9, at Crocodilopolis,
10    under Paniskos, agoranomos of the upper toparchy of the Pathyrites: there sold, Pates son of Thotortaios, a Persian of the epigone, of those from Pathyris, about 60 years old, well-built, honey-skinned, straight-haired, with receding hairline, quiet-mannered, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on the right of his bald forehead, from the house belonging to him and to Patepos his brother in the middle division of Pathyris, a built house and the
11    adjoining courtyard, of eight solid cubits, the half share falling to him, four solid cubits, the neighbors of the whole house being: to the south the house of Panebchounis son of Patous, to the north the house of
12    Kanopos son of Konouphis, which his sons possess, to the east the royal street, to the west the house of Panebchounis son of Totoes the buyer and part of the house of Harpos son of Pabous, or whoever the neighbors may be
13    on all sides, there subscribing to the sale and purchase also Horos, the elder son of the aforesaid Pates, about 38 years old, of middle (build), honey-skinned, slightly stooping, long-faced, straight-nosed, with the left ear
14    wounded. There bought Panebchounis son of Totoes, a Persian of the epigone, of those from the same Pathyris, about 60 years old, less than middle (build), honey-skinned, straight-haired, long-faced, straight-nosed, with receding hairline, quiet-mannered,
15    for two talents of copper. Vendor-in-chief and guarantor of all matters pertaining to the sale is Pates the seller, whom Panebchounis the buyer accepted.
16    I, Paniskos, have transacted (this). Year 10, Mecheir 9.
17    Year 10, Phamenoth 5. There has been paid at the bank in Crocodilopolis, at which … the 10 percent (tax), according to the payment-order from Paniskos
18    the tax-collector, under which Pankrates the countersigner subscribes, by Panebchounis son of Totoes, the tax on the purchase of a built house
19    and the adjoining courtyard, of 8 cubits, of 4 solid cubits, in the middle division of Pathyris, whose boundaries have been declared
20    through the aforesaid contract, which he bought from Pates son of Thotortaios for two talents of copper, the tax of which, at the exchange rate, is one thousand two hundred,
21    total 1200 drachmas. Paniskos, banker. (Year) 1485.
