[META]
id:       P.STRAS 2.84
label:    P.STRAS 2.84
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     114 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (114 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land
tm:       101
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.stras;2;84
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους γ, Μεσορὴ ιη. ἀπέδοντο
r.2    Τακμῆις Πατοῦτος καὶ
r.3    Σιεπμοῦς Τοτοέους μερίδα γῆς
r.4    ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου σφραγίδων γ. ἐπρίατο
r.5    Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος
r.6    χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α Β.
r.7    βασιλευόντων βασιλίσσης καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων
r.8    ἔτους γ, ἐφʼ ἱερέως βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος Σωτῆρος Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν
r.9    Σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν Εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν Ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεοῦ Εὐπάτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλοπάτορος Νέου καὶ θεοῦ Εὐεργέτου
r.10   καὶ θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων, ἱεροῦ πώλου Ἴσιδος μεγάλης μητρὸς θεῶν, ἀθλοφόρου
r.11   Βερενίκης Εὐεργέτιδος, κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου, ἱερείας Ἀρσινόης Φιλοπάτορος
r.12   τῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι,
r.13   ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερισσῶν κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων
r.14   καὶ οὐσῶν ἐν Πτολεμαίδι, μηνὸς Μεσορὴ ιη. ἐν Παθύρει, ἐπʼ Ἀμμωνίου ἀγορανόμου.
r.15   ἀπέδοτο Τακμῆις Πατοῦτος Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν ν μέση μελίχρως πλατυπρόσωπος εὐθύριν καὶ Σιεπμοῦς Τοτοέους Περσίνη ὡς ἐτῶν κε μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος
r.16   εὐθύριν, μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ τῆς Τακμήιτος ἀνδρός, Σιεπμοῦτος πατρὸς Τοτοῆτος
r.17   τοῦ Πελαίου, συνεπικελεύοντος Πανοβχούνιος καὶ Ταελολοῦτος τῶν Τοτοέους
r.18   τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐταῖς ἑκάστῃ μερίδα γῆς ἠπείρου σιτοφόρου σφραγίδων τριῶν ἐν Παθύρει,
r.19   μιᾶς μὲν γείτονες· νότου γῆ Παχράτου καὶ Κούλιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Χενσθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου
r.20   γῆ Ἀῆτος, λιβὸς περίχωμα, ἄλλης· νότου γῆ Χενσθώτου, βορρᾶ Παχράτου καὶ Κούλιος,
r.21   ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Φίβιος καὶ τῶν ἀ[δελ]φῶν,
r.22   λιβὸς περίχωμα, ἄλλης Ποκρώ· νότου γῆ Σεμπελαίας,
r.23   βορρᾶ γῆ Πανᾶτος, ἀπηλιώτου ποταμός, λ[ι]βὸς γῆ
r.24   Ἀραμῆτος, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσιν γείτονες πάντοθεν.
r.25   ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος χαλκοῦ ταλάντου α Β.
r.26   βεβαιωταὶ Τακμῆις καὶ Σιεπμοῦς οἱ ἀποδόμενοι,
r.27   οὓς ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.28   Ἀμμώνιος κεχρημάτικα.
r.29   ἔτους γ, Μεσορὴ κϛ. τέτακται ἐπὶ τὴν ἐν Παθύρει τράπεζαν, ἐφʼ ἧς Ἡρακλείδης
r.30   θέμα ι ἐνκυκλίου Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος χαλκοῦ ω, γίνονται ω.
r.31   Ἡρακλείδης τραπεζίτης.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 3, Mesore 18. There sold
2     Takmeis daughter of Patous and
3     Siepmous daughter of Totoes a portion of land,
4     dry grain-bearing (land), of 3 plots (sphragides). There bought (it)
5     Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis
6     for 1 talent 2000 (drachmas) of bronze.
7     In the reign of the queen and King Ptolemy, the Mother-loving Saviour Gods,
8     year 3, when the priest of King Ptolemy the god Philometor Soter and of Alexander and of the
9     Saviour Gods and of the Sibling Gods and of the Benefactor Gods and of the Father-loving Gods and of the Manifest Gods and of the god Eupator and of the god Philometor and of the god Philopator Neos and of the god Euergetes
10    and of the Mother-loving Saviour Gods (was in office), when the sacred colt of Isis great mother of the gods, and the prize-bearer
11    of Berenike Euergetis, and the basket-bearer of Arsinoe Philadelphos, and the priestess of Arsinoe Philopator,
12    were those in office in Alexandria,
13    and in Ptolemais of the Thebaid, under the priests and priestesses and basket-bearer being those in office
14    and in office in Ptolemais, in the month Mesore 18. In Pathyris, under Ammonios the agoranomos.
15    There sold: Takmeis daughter of Patous, Persian, about 50 years old, of middle height, honey-coloured, broad-faced, straight-nosed, and Siepmous daughter of Totoes, Persian, about 25 years old, of middle height, honey-coloured, long-faced,
16    straight-nosed, with as guardian the husband of Takmeis, Siepmous (?), son of Totoes
17    son of Pelaios, with the joint consent of Panobchounis and Taelolous, children of Totoes,
18    the portion of dry grain-bearing land belonging to each of them, of three plots (sphragides), in Pathyris,
19    of the one (portion) the neighbours are: to the south the land of Pachrates and Koulis, to the north the land of Chensthotes, to the east
20    the land of Aes, to the west a dyke; of another: to the south the land of Chensthotes, to the north (that) of Pachrates and Koulis,
21    to the east the land of Patous son of Phibis and of his brothers,
22    to the west a dyke; of another, (called) Pokro: to the south the land of Sempelaia,
23    to the north the land of Panas, to the east the river, to the west the land
24    of Aramis; or whoever the neighbours may be on all sides.
25    There bought (it) Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis for 1 talent 2000 (drachmas) of bronze.
26    Guarantors: Takmeis and Siepmous, the sellers,
27    whom Petearsemtheus the buyer accepted.
28    I, Ammonios, have registered (this).
29    Year 3, Mesore 26. There has been paid to the bank at Pathyris, at which Herakleides (is banker),
30    as deposit for the sales-tax (enkyklion), by Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis, in bronze 800, total 800.
31    Herakleides, banker.
