[META]
id:       P.STRAS 2.81
label:    P.STRAS 2.81
name:     Contract — Diospolis Magna (Theben)
genre:    contracts
date:     115 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Diospolis Magna (Theben)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Diospolis Magna (Theben) (115 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land
tm:       99
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.stras;2;81
lat:      25.664781
lon:      32.631884

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτο[υ]ς γ, Χοιὰχ ια. ἀπέδοντο
r.2    Τβοκενοῦφ[ι]ς καὶ Ταθῶτις
r.3    αἱ β Πατείους τῶν ἐκ Παθύρεως
r.4    μετὰ κυρίου Πακοίβιος τοῦ Ἁρσιήσιος
r.5    ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχουσῶν αὐταῖς τε καὶ τοῖς ἑαυτῶν ἀδελφοῖς
r.6    ἐν τῶι περὶ τὴν Παθῦριν πεδίωι
r.7    γῶν σιτοφόρων δ ἀρουρῶν ὅσων ἄν ὦσι κοινῶν καὶ ἀδιαιρέτων
r.8    τὸ ἐπ[ι]βάλλον ἑκάστηι αὐτῶν μέρος. ἐπρίατο
r.9    Παν[ο]μχοῦνις χαλκοῦ νομίσματος γίνονται Β.
r.10   βεβαιώτριαι.
r.11   βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ Πτολεμαίου θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων ἔτους γ, ἐφʼ ἱερέως βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου θεοῦ
r.12   Φιλομήτορος Σωτῆρος Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν Σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν Ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν Εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν Φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν
r.13   Ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεοῦ Εὐπάτορος καὶ θεοῦ Φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ Νέου Φιλοπάτορος καὶ θεοῦ Εὐεργέτου καὶ θεῶν Φιλομητόρων Σωτήρων,
r.14   ἱεροῦ πώλου Ἴσιδος μεγάλης μητρὸς θεῶν, ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης Εὐεργέτιδος, κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης Φιλαδέλφου, ἱερείας Ἀρσινόης
r.15   Φιλοπάτορος τῶν οὐσῶν ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι, ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων
r.16   καὶ οὐσῶν, μηνὸς Χοιὰχ ια.
r.17   ἐν Διὸς πόλει τῆι μεγάληι τῆς Θηβαίδος, ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου ἀγορανόμου τοῦ Περιθήβας.
r.18   ἀπέδοντο Τβοκενοῦφις ὡς ἐτῶν λε μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν ἀδύνατος τοῖς ὄμμασιν καὶ Ταθῶτις ὡς ἐτῶν λ μέση μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν ἄσημος αἱ δύο
r.19   Πατείους τῶν ἐκ Παθύρεως, μετὰ κυρίου τοῦ ἑαυτῶν συγγενοῦς πρὸς ἀνδρογένειαν Πακοίβιος τοῦ Ἁρσιήσιος τῶν ἀπὸ τῆς
r.20   Διὸς πόλεως ὡς ἐτῶν ν μέσου μελίχρους τετανοῦ ἀναφαλάνθου μακροπροσώπου εὐθυρίνου οὐλὴ ὑπὲρ ὀφρὺν δεξιάν, ἀπὸ τῶν ὑπαρχουσῶν αὐταῖς τε καὶ τοῖς ἑαυτῶν ἀδελφοῖς ἐν τῶι
r.21   περὶ τὴν Παθῦριν πεδίωι γῶν σιτοφόρων τεσσάρων ἀρουρῶν ὅσων ἄν ὦσι κοινῶν καὶ ἀδιαιρέτων, μιᾶς μὲν, ἧς γείτονες·
r.22   νότου γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Φίβιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πελαίου νεωτέρου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Κολλούθου τοῦ Φαγήριος, λιβὸς ὄρος, ἄλλης δὲ καλουμένης
r.23   Τιαβῶνις, ἧς γείτονες· νότου γῆ Χεσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπαῖτος, βορρᾶ γῆ Παθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Θράσωνος καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, λιβὸς χῶμα
r.24   προσαγορευόμενον Τοᾶμε, τῆς δʼ ἑτέρας, ἧς γείτονες· νότου γῆ Χορήριος, βορρᾶ γῆ Χεσθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Ἀείους, λιβὸς τὸ προγεγραμμένον
r.25   χῶμα, τῆς δʼ ἄλλης γείτονες ὁμοίως· νότου γῆ Σενπελαίας, βορρᾶ γῆ
r.26   Πανᾶτος, ἀπηλιώτου ποταμός, λιβὸς γῆ Ἀραμείους, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσιν
r.27   γείτονες πάντων πάντοθεν, τούτων πάντων τὸ ἐπιβάλλον
r.28   ἑκάστῃ αὐτῶν μέρος. ἐπρίατο Πανεβχοῦνις Τοτοέους
r.29   τῶν ἐκ τῆς αὐτῆς Παθύρεως ὡς ἐτῶν νε μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς ἀναφάλανθος ἡσυχῆ στρογγυλοπρόσωπος
r.30   εὐθύριν οὐλὴ φαλάνθῳ δεξιᾷ ἄκραι χαλκοῦ νομίσματος δραχμῶν δισχιλίων .
r.31   βεβαιώτριαι τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων αἱ ἀποδόμεναι,
r.32   ἃς ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.33   Ἀπολλώνιος κεχρημάτικα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 3, Choiak 11. There sold,
2     Tbokenouphis and Tathotis,
3     the two daughters of Pateus, of those from Pathyris,
4     with their guardian Pakoibis son of Harsiesis,
5     from the properties belonging to them and to their own brothers
6     in the plain around Pathyris,
7     of grain-bearing lands, 4 arouras, however many they be, held in common and undivided,
8     the share falling to each of them. There bought,
9     Panomchounis, of bronze coinage, total 2,000 (drachmas).
10    (The women are) the warrantors.
11    In the reign of Cleopatra and Ptolemy, the gods Philometores Soteres, year 3, when the priest of King Ptolemy the god
12    Philometor Soter, and of Alexander and the Soter gods and the Sibling gods and the Benefactor gods and the Father-loving gods and the
13    Manifest gods and the god Eupator and the god Philometor and the god New Philopator and the god Benefactor and the gods Philometores Soteres,
14    (and) the sacred foal of Isis the great mother of the gods, (when) the athlophoros of Berenice Euergetis, the kanephoros of Arsinoe Philadelphos, the priestess of Arsinoe
15    Philopator, those being in Alexandria, and in Ptolemais of the Thebaid when (there were) the priests and priestesses and the kanephoros of those who are
16    and were, in the month Choiak 11.
17    In Diospolis the Great of the Thebaid, before Apollonios, agoranomos of the Peri-Thebes district.
18    There sold, Tbokenouphis, about 35 years old, of medium size, honey-colored, long-faced, straight-nosed, weak in the eyes, and Tathotis, about 30 years old, of medium size, honey-colored, long-faced, straight-nosed, without distinguishing mark, the two
19    daughters of Pateus, of those from Pathyris, with their guardian, their own kinsman in respect of male-line, Pakoibis son of Harsiesis, of those from
20    Diospolis, about 50 years old, of medium size, honey-colored, straight-haired, balding, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar above the right eyebrow, from the properties belonging to them and to their own brothers in the
21    plain around Pathyris, of grain-bearing lands, four arouras, however many they be, held in common and undivided: of one, whose neighbors are —
22    on the south, land of Patous son of Phibis; on the north, land of Pelaios the younger; on the east, land of Kollouthos son of Phageris; on the west, the mountain; of another, called
23    Tiabonis, whose neighbors are — on the south, land of Chesthotes son of Melipais; on the north, land of Pathotes; on the east, land of Thrason and his brothers; on the west, a dyke
24    called Toame; of the other, whose neighbors are — on the south, land of Choreris; on the north, land of Chesthotes; on the east, land of Aeis; on the west, the aforewritten
25    dyke; of the other, the neighbors likewise — on the south, land of Senpelaia; on the north, land of
26    Panas; on the east, the river; on the west, land of Arameis; or whoever the
27    neighbors of all may be on every side; of all these, the share falling
28    to each of them. There bought, Panebchounis son of Totoes,
29    of those from the same Pathyris, about 55 years old, of medium size, honey-colored, straight-haired, balding, somewhat round-faced,
30    straight-nosed, with a scar on the crown, right side, at the top, for bronze coinage, two thousand drachmas.
31    Warrantors of all the terms of this sale (are) the vendors,
32    which (payment) Petearsemtheus the purchaser received.
33    I, Apollonios, have transacted.
