[META]
id:       P.STRAS 2.89
label:    P.STRAS 2.89
name:     Contract — Pathyris
genre:    contracts
date:     99 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyris
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyris (99 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land
tm:       106
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.stras;2;89
lat:      25.369659
lon:      32.473946

[GREEK]
r.1    βασιλεύοντος Πτολεμαίου τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ Βερενίκης τῆς ἀδελφῆς θεῶν Φιλομητόρων ἔτους ιε,
r.2    ἐφʼ ἱερέων καὶ ἱερειῶν καὶ κανηφόρου τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν, μηνὸς Ἐπεὶφ κε. ἐν Παθύρει, ἐφʼ Ἑρμίου τοῦ παρὰ
r.3    Πανίσκου ἀγορανόμου. ἀπέδοτο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πακοίβιος ἱερεὺς Σού[χου] καὶ Ἀφροδίτης ὡς ἐτῶν μ εὐμεγέθης
r.4    μελίχρως μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν τὴν ὑπάρχουσαν αὐτῷ μερίδα γῆς σιτοφόρου ἐν τῷ περὶ Παθῦρειν πεδίωι σφραγίδων
r.5    τεσσάρων , ἣν καὶ αὐτὸς ἐωνήσατο παρὰ Πανοβχούνιος τοῦ Τοτόηους ἐν τῷ ιε ἔτει Παῦνι γ ἐπὶ τοῦ ἀρχείου, μιᾶς μὲν
r.6    ἐν τῷ ἀπὸ λιβὸς πεδίωι, γείτονες· νότου γῆ Πατοῦτος τοῦ Φίβιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Πελαίου νεωτέρου Φίβιος, ἀπηλιώτου Κολλούθου
r.7    τοῦ Φίβιος, λιβὸς ὄρος, τὴν δʼ ἄλλην ἐπὶ Τιαβώνει· νότου γῆ Χενσθώτου τοῦ Μελιπαῖτος, βορρᾶ γῆ Παθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου γῆ Θράσωνος
r.8    καὶ τῶν ἀδελφῶν, λιβὸς περίχωμα, τῆς δʼ ἑτερᾶς· νότου γῆ Τακοίμιος, βορρᾶ γῆ Χενσθώτου, ἀπηλιώτου Ἀείους, λιβὸς περίχωμα,
r.9    τῆς δʼ ἄλλης λεγομένης Πκρώ· νότου γῆ Σενπελαίας, βορρᾶ γῆ Πανᾶτος ἀπηλιώτου ποταμός, λιβὸς Ἀραμείους, ἢ οἳ ἂν ὦσι
r.10   γείτονες πάντων πάντοθεν. ἐπρίατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς Πανοβχούνιος ὡς ἐτῶν μ χαλκοῦ τάλαντα δύο . προπωλητὴς
r.11   καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην πάντων Πετεαρσεμθεὺς ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Πετεαρσεμθεὺς
r.12   ὁ πριάμενος.
r.13   Ἑρμίας ὁ παρὰ Πανίσκου κεχρημάτικα.
r.14   ὠνὴ Πετεαρσεμθεὺς
r.15   Πανοβχούνιος
r.16   γῆ σφραγίδων δ, ἣν ἠγόρασεν
r.17   παρὰ Πετεαρσεμθέως.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the reign of Ptolemy surnamed Alexander and Berenike his sister, gods Philometores, in year 15,
2     the priests and priestesses and canephore being those who are (in office), in the month Epeiph 25, in Pathyris, before Hermias the agent of
3     Paniskos the agoranomos. Petearsemtheus son of Pakoibis, priest of Souchos and Aphrodite, aged about 40, tall,
4     honey-coloured, long-faced, with a straight nose, sold the portion of grain-bearing land belonging to him in the plain around Pathyris, of four
5     parcels, which he himself also bought from Panobchounis son of Totoes in the 15th year, Pauni 3, at the archive-office: of one (parcel)
6     in the plain to the west, neighbours: on the south the land of Patous son of Phibis, on the north the land of Pelaios the younger son of Phibis, on the east that of Kollouthos
7     son of Phibis, on the west the hill; of the other, at Tiabon: on the south the land of Chensthotes son of Melipais, on the north the land of Pathotes, on the east the land of Thrason
8     and his brothers, on the west the embankment; of the third: on the south the land of Takoimis, on the north the land of Chensthotes, on the east that of Aeis, on the west the embankment;
9     of the other, called Pkro: on the south the land of Senpelaia, on the north the land of Panas, on the east the river, on the west that of Aramis, or whoever may be
10    the neighbours all round on all sides. Petearsemtheus son of Panobchounis, aged about 40, bought (it) for two talents of copper. Seller
11    and warrantor of all matters concerning this sale (is) Petearsemtheus the seller, whom Petearsemtheus
12    the buyer accepted.
13    I, Hermias the agent of Paniskos, have registered (it).
14    Sale. Petearsemtheus son of
15    Panobchounis.
16    Land of 4 parcels, which he bought
17    from Petearsemtheus.
