[META]
id:       P.STRAS 1.35
label:    P.STRAS 1.35
name:     Letter — unbekannt
genre:    letters
date:     301 CE – 500 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unbekannt
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from unbekannt (301 CE – 500 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Bericht eines Gutsverwalters — Zahlung von Geld — Verschiffung von Gütern
tm:       33059
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/p.stras;1;35
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    τῷ τ … ίῳ Ἡσυχε[ίου]
r.2    χαίρειν. γιγνώσκειν σε βούλομαι κύριέ μου, ὅτι ἐκομισάμην π[αρὰ Δη]μᾶ ἐγγύης Δειωγ[ένους] χρυσοῦ κε[ράτι]ον ἓν καὶ ἔσχο[ν] …
r.3    εἰς … αν, μὴ ἔλαβές μοι τει πατο … υ …
r.4    ας ὁρασείας τῆς ἔγραψές μοι — καὶ ἰδοὺ εἰς δύο μῆνας ἡμερῶν ἔχω
r.5    σοι πέμψας τὴν πᾶσαν ἀπόκρησίν σου καὶ ξενίζομαι μέχρι
r.6    τῆς σήμερον ἡμέρας πῶς οὐκ … ψε … ν, ὅτι ἐδέξου τὸ καπίτιον
r.7    καὶ τὸ χόρτασμα — λοιπὸν θελήσῃ ἡ σὴ ἀρετὴ καὶ ἂν ἄρτι γράψον
r.8    δεχόμενος αὐτά, ὅτι οὐκ ἠγνόησεν μόνον, ἀλλὰ καὶ τοῦ Μηνᾶ
r.9    ἐστὶν εἰς αὐτὸ καπίτιον εἰς τὸ πλοῖον, ᾧ ἀνῆλθεν ὁ λογοθέτης·
r.10   περὶ δὲ τοῦ Μηνᾶ τοῦ κολλεκταρίου, πρὶν ἢ ἐξελθεῖν αὐτόν,
r.11   ἐδεξάμην παρʼ αὐτοῦ νομίσματα ρνϛ, ὡς καὶ προέγραψά σοι, ἀπέλυσέν
r.12   με δὲ τὰ ἄλλα ἑβδ[ομ]ήκοντα ἐννέα ὁλοκότ τινα πρὸς Εὐσεβῆ
r.13   τὸν Καλλιοπείου τοὺς Ἀπαμεῖς, καὶ ὡς οἶδεν ὁ θεός, ὅτι εἰ μή τι Ἁθὺρ
r.14   κε — οὐκ ἐπληρώθην παρὰ … καίου Εἰσιδώρου τοῦ Εἰωάννου,
r.15   κατέγραψά σοι τὸ πᾶν τοῦ λόγου — θελήσῃ οὖν ἡ σὴ ἀδελφότης δεχόμε[νος]
r.16   τὰ γράμματὰ μου εὐθὺς καὶ παραχρῆμα γράψον μοι, εἰ ἐδέξου
r.17   τὸ καπίτιον καὶ τὸ χάρτισμα ὁμοίως κα[ὶ] τὸ ἄλλο χόρτασμα
r.18   παρὰ τοῦ Μηνᾶ — φρόντ[ι]σόν μου δὲ περὶ τῶν ἐλαιῶν τῶν καλλίστων, ἐπειδὴ ἐν Ἀλεξανδρίᾳ οὐκ ἔνει, ἀλλὰ εἰς τὸν θεὸν χάς …
r.19   καὶ εἰς σὲ ὑγιαίνων δίελθε
r.20   ἐγράφη μη[νὸς] Ἁθὺρ κθ ἰνδικτίονος β
r.21   ἐπίδος σὺν θεῷ τῷ κυρίῳ … φ …

[TRANSLATION]
1     To … Hesychios (?)
2     greeting. I wish you to know, my lord, that I received from Demas, as surety of Diogenes, one carat of gold and I had …
3     into … , did you not receive for me … …
4     … of the vision which you wrote to me — and behold, within two months of days I have
5     sent you your whole answer, and I am astonished until
6     the present day how you did not …, that you received the capitium (small cloak)
7     and the fodder — henceforth may your excellence be willing, and just now write
8     that you have received them, since he was not only unaware, but it also belongs to Menas,
9     to that same capitium, onto the boat by which the accountant went up;
10    and concerning Menas the collector, before he departed,
11    I received from him 156 coins, as I also wrote you before; and he released
12    to me the other seventy-nine solidi, some (?) to Eusebes
13    son of Kalliopeios, the Apameans, and as God knows, that if not something (?)… Hathyr
14    25 — I was not paid in full by … Isidorus son of Ioannes,
15    I have written down for you the whole of the account — may your brotherliness therefore be willing, on receiving
16    my letter at once and immediately, to write to me whether you received
17    the capitium and the little charter, likewise also the other fodder
18    from Menas — and take thought for me concerning the finest olives, since in Alexandria there are none, but toward God … (?)
19    and toward you, remaining in health, pass (your life).
20    Written in the month Hathyr 29, of the 2nd indiction.
21    Deliver, with God, to my lord … …
