[META]
id:       PSI 5.502
label:    PSI 5.502
name:     Letter — Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
genre:    letters
date:     257 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Philadelphia (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Letter from Philadelphia (Arsinoites) (257 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Brief (privat) — Panakestor an Zenon — Anweisungen — Abschrift eines Briefs (privat) — Apollonios an Panakestor — Vorwurf der Nachlässigkeit — kein Bericht über Abschätzung — Ernte — Getreide — Antwortschreiben — Panakestor an Apollonios — Rechtfertigung
tm:       2443
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/psi;5;502
lat:      29.453786
lon:      31.08033

[GREEK]
r.1    Πανακέστωρ Ζήνωνι χαίρειν. εἰ ἔρρωσαι καὶ ἐν τοῖς λοιποῖς κατὰ λόγον ἀπαλλάσσεις, εἴη ἂν
r.2    ὡς ἡμεῖς θέλομεν· ἐρρώμεθα δὲ καὶ αὐτοί. καλῶς ἂν ποιοῖς μνημονεύων ἡμῶν. καὶ ὡς ἄν
r.3    ποτε εὐκαίρως ὑπολαμβάνηις Ἀπολλώνιον ὑπομνῆσαι ὑπὲρ ὧν σοι καὶ ἐν Μέμφει τὰ ὑπομνήματα ἔδωκα, καὶ ἔφης αὐτῶι σοι ἐπιμελὲς ἔσεσθαι. δ[ιὸ ][ο]ὖν, σπούδασον μνησθῆναι αὐτῶι
r.4    ἵνα τὰ προστάγματα λάβηι παρὰ τοῦ βασιλέως καθ[άπ]ερ ὡμολόγησεν ἡμῖν· οἶδα γὰρ ὅτι σοῦ
r.5    βουλομένου ἔσται ἡμῖν πάντα. ὑπογέγραφα δέ [σ]οι καὶ τῆς ἐλθούσης μοι παρʼ Ἀπολλωνίου ἐπιστολῆς τὸ ἀντίγραφον, ὡσαύτως δὲ καὶ ὧν ἀπέσταλκα αὐτῶι. ἔρρωσο. ἔτους κθ, Παχὼνς ιε.
r.6    Ἀπολλώνιος. κατεπλησσόμην τὴν ὀλιγωρίαν σου ἐπὶ τῶι μηθὲν γεγραφέναι μήτε περὶ τῆς
r.7    συντιμήσεως μήτε περὶ τῆς συναγωγῆς τοῦ σίτου. ἔτι οὖν καὶ νῦν γράψον ἡμῖν ἐν οἷς ἕκαστά
r.8    ἐστιν. ἔτους κθ, Ἀρτεμισί[ου] κγ Φαρμοῦθ[ι] λ.
r.9    Ἀπολλωνίωι. ἐκομισάμην τὴν παρά σου ἐπιστολὴν τοῦ Παχὼνς ιδ παρὰ Ζωίλου, ἐν ἧι γράφεις
r.10   θαυμάζων ὅτι οὐθέν σοι ἀπέσταλκα περὶ τῆς συντιμήσεως καὶ τῆς συναγωγῆς τοῦ σπόρου. ἡμῖν δὲ
r.11   συνέβη παραγενέσθαι εἰς Φιλαδέλφειαν τοῦ Φαμενὼθ ιϛ καὶ [ε]ὐθὺ γράψαι Ζωίλωι καὶ Ζωπυρίωνι
r.12   καὶ τοῖς βασιλικοῖς γραμματεῦσιν παραγενέσθαι πρὸς ἡμᾶς, ἵνα τὰ ὑπὸ σοῦ συντεταγμένα οἰκονομήσωμεν. Ζωίλος μὲν οὖν ἐτύγχανεν συμπεριοδεύων Τελέστηι· διὸ ἄσχολος ἦν· οἱ δὲ βασιλικοὶ γραμματεῖς
r.13   καὶ ὁ παρὰ Ζωπυρίωνος Παυῆς παρεγένοντο πρὸς ἡμᾶς μεθʼ ἡμέρας ιβ. συναντησάντων δʼ αὐτῶν ἐπελθόντες
r.14   τὴν γῆν μετροῦμεν κατὰ γεωργὸν καὶ κατὰ φύλλον ἡμέρας ε. τοῦτο δὲ συντελέσαντες μεταπεμψάμενοι τοὺς γεωργοὺς τά τε παρὰ σοῦ φιλάνθρωπα αὐτοῖς ἀπηγγέλλομεν καὶ τὰ λοιπὰ παρακαλέσαντες
r.15   ἠξιοῦμεν αὐτοὺς συντιμήσασθαι καθὰ ἡμῖν ἐν τῶι ὑπομνήματι ἔδωκας, ἢ συνελθόντας μεθʼ ἡμῶν
r.16   ἐντυπὴν ποιησαμένους σύμβολα ποιήσασθαι. οἱ δʼ ἐπ[ὶ] μὲν τοῦ παρόντος ἔφασαν βουλευσάμενοι
r.17   ἀποφανεῖσθαι ἡμῖν, μετὰ δʼ ἡμέρας δ καθίσαντες εἰς τὸ ἱερὸν οὐκ ἔφασαν οὔτε δικαίως οὔτʼ ἀδίκως
r.18   συντιμήσεσθαι, ἀλλʼ ἔφασαν ἐκχωρήσειν τοῦ σπόρου· ὁμολογίαν γὰρ εἶναι πρός σε αὐτοῖς ἐκ τοῦ γενήματος
r.19   ἀποδώσειν τὸ τρίτον. ἐμοῦ δὲ καὶ Δάμιδος πολλὰ πρὸς αὐτοὺς εἰπάντων, ἐπειδὴ οὐθὲν ἠνύομεν, ᾠχόμεθα
r.20   πρὸς Ζωίλον καὶ ἠξιοῦμεν αὐτὸν συμπαραγενέσθαι· ὁ δʼ ἔφη ἄσχολος εἶναι πρὸς τῆι τῶν ναυτῶν ἀποστολῆι.
r.21   ἐπανελθοῦσιν οὖν ἡμῖν εἰς Φιλαδέλφειαν μεθʼ ἡμέρας γ ἔδοξεν, ἐπειδή, καθάπερ ἐν τῶι ὑπομνήματι
r.22   εἴχομεν, συντιμήσασθαι οὐχ ὑπέμενον οὐδὲ προκοπὴν ποιήσασθαι, αὐτοὺς ἀξιῶσαι δοῦναι ὑποτίμησιν
r.23   ἥ ποθʼ ἑκάστωι φαίνεται· οἱ δʼ ἔδωκαν ἡμῖν ἣν ἀπεστάλκαμέν σοι πρότερον. ταῦτα δʼ οἰκονομήσαντες
r.24   ἦμεν πρὸς τῶι τὴν σησαμῖτιν καὶ τὴν ξυλῖτιν μετὰ τῶν βασιλικῶν γραμματέων γεωμετρεῖν, οἳ τὸν
r.25   λόγον ἡμῖν ἔδωκαν τῆι κβ τοῦ Φαρμοῦθι. καλῶς ἂν οὖν ποιήσαις μηδεμίαν ἡμῶν καταγινώσκων ὀλιγωρίαν·
r.26   οὐ γὰρ ἔστιν σοι ὑπηρετοῦντα ὀλιγωρεῖν. φανερὸν δέ σοι ἔσται ἐκ τοῦ τὸν σῖτον συναχθήσεσθαι μηδεμιᾶς
r.27   οὔσης ἐν τῶι τόπωι χορηγίας.
r.28   Πανακέστωρ. ἀντίγραφον ἐπιστολῆς
r.29   τῆς πρὸς Ἀπολλώνιον. ἔτους κθ,
r.30   Δαισίου ιδ, ἐν Ἀλεξαν[δρείαι].
r.31   Ζήνωνι

[TRANSLATION]
1     Panakestor to Zenon, greetings. If you are well and in the other things you are doing well reasonably, it would be
2     as we wish; we too are well. You would do well remembering us. And as whenever
3     you have opportunity to remind Apollonios concerning which things I gave you in Memphis, the memoranda, and you said to him that you would take care of them for you. Therefore, hasten to mention [them] to him
4     in order that he might obtain the orders from the king as he agreed with us; for I know that [if] you
5     wish it, everything will be [done] for us. I have written below for you a copy of the letter that came to me from Apollonios, and likewise [a copy] of those which I sent to him. Farewell. Year 29, Pachon 15.
6     Apollonios. I was astounded at your negligence, that you wrote nothing neither concerning the
7     joint harvest nor concerning the gathering of the grain. Still now then write to us in what each
8     is. Year 29, Artemisios 23, Pharmouthi 30.
9     To Apollonios. I received your letter of Pachon 14 from Zoilus, in which you write
10    wondering that I sent you nothing concerning the joint harvest and the gathering of the seed. But we
11    it happened to come to Philadelphia on Phamenoth 16, and immediately write to Zoilus and Zopyrio[n]
12    and the royal secretaries to come to us, in order that we might manage the things ordered by you. Zoilus then happened to be traveling about with Telestes; for which reason he was busy; but the royal secretaries
13    and the [official] from Zopyrio[n], Paues, came to us after 12 days. When they met, having gone through
14    the land, measuring by farmer and by portion, 5 days. Having completed this, having summoned the farmers, we announced to them both the kind [orders] from you and the other things, having exhorted [them]
15    we asked them to make a joint harvest as you gave to us in the memorandum, or having come together with us
16    having made an impression, to make symbols/agreements. But they for the present said deliberating
17    they would declare to us, but after 4 days, sitting down at the temple, they said neither justly nor unjustly
18    they would make a joint harvest, but they said they would give up the seed; for there to be an agreement with you for them from the produce
19    to give back the third. When I and Damis spoke many [words] to them, when we accomplished nothing, we departed
20    to Zoilus, and we asked him to come along; but he said he was busy with the dispatch of the sailors.
21    Returning then to us to Philadelphia after 3 days, it seemed [good], since, as in the memorandum
22    we had, they did not stand to make a joint harvest nor to make progress, to ask them to give a reduced-payment
23    as it seems good to each; but they gave to us which we had sent to you before. Having arranged these things
24    we were about the sesame-land and the wood-land with the royal secretaries to measure, who the
25    account gave to us on the 22nd of Pharmouthi. You would do well then, finding no negligence in us;
26    for it is not for servants of you to neglect. But it will be clear to you from the grain being gathered, no
27    being in the place of provisioning.
28    Panakestor. Copy of letter
29    [directed] to Apollonios. Year 29,
30    Daisios 14, in Alexand[ria].
31    To Zenon