[META]
id:       PSI 9.1018
label:    PSI 9.1018
name:     Contract — Pathyrites
genre:    contracts
date:     107 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyrites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyrites (107 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Sporteln — Priester — Heiligtum — scriptura interior
tm:       5571
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/psi;9;1018
lat:      25.4833
lon:      32.4833

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους η, Ἁθὺρ ι.
r.2    ἀπέδοτο
r.3    Πικῶς
r.4    ἡμέρας ε.
r.5    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου υἱοῦ τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου Ἀλεξάνδρου
r.6    θεῶν φιλομητόρων σωτήρων ἔτους η, Ἁθὺρ ι, ἐφʼ ἱερέως
r.7    τοῦ ὄντος ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν ἐπιφανῶν
r.8    καὶ θεοῦ φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ εὐπάτορος καὶ θεῶν εὐεργετῶν ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης εὐεργέτιδος κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης φιλαδέλφου
r.9    καὶ θεᾶς Ἀρσινόης φιλοπάτορος τῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι, ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς Θηβαίδος ἐφʼ ἱερέων Πτολεμαί[ου] τοῦ μὲν σωτῆρος τῶν
r.10   ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν, ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου τοῦ πρὸς τῆι ἀγορανομίαι τῶν Μεμνονέων τοῦ Παθυρίτου τῆς Θηβαίδος,
r.11   ἀπέδοτο Πικῶς Ψεμμίνιος ὡς ἐτῶν κ μέσος μελίχρως κλαστὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ μετώπωι μέσωι ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος
r.12   αὐτῶι [ἐν τῶι] ἀπὸ βορρᾶ μέρει Μεμνονέων ἐπὶ τοῦ ὅρου Ἀφροδισιείου [γέρως] ἡμέρας πέντε ἁγνευτικῶν καὶ τῶν πάντων λοιπῶν
r.13   καὶ καρπειῶν καὶ ἐπεσομένων φιλανθρώπων. ἐπρίατο Τοτοῆς Ζμανρέους τῶν ἐκ τῶν Μεμνονέων παστοφόρων χαλκοῦ
r.14   νομίσματος ταλάντων δέκα . προπωλητὴς καὶ βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην Πικῶς ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο
r.15   Τοτοῆς ὁ πριάμενος.
r.16   Ἀπολλώνιος κεχρημάτικα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 8, Athyr 10.
2     was sold
3     Pikous
4     days 5.
5     ruling Cleopatra and king Ptolemaeus son of the called Alexander
6     gods mother-loving saviours year 8, Athyr 10, under priest
7     of the being in Alexandria Alexander and gods saviors and gods brothers and gods benefactors and gods father-loving and gods manifest
8     and god mother-loving and god father-loving and gods benefactors athlete-bearing Berenike beneficial basket-carrier Arsinoe sister-loving
9     and goddess Arsinoe father-loving of the being in Alexandria, in but Ptolemais of the Thebaid under priests of Ptolemaeus of the indeed savior of the
10    being and existing, on Apollonius of the at the agoranomy of the Memnoneans of the Pathyrite of the Thebaid,
11    was sold Pikous of Psemminis as of years 20 middle honey-colored curly long-faced straight-nosed scar on forehead middle from the existing
12    to him [in the] from north part of Memnoneans on the boundary Aphrodisieium [old age] days five sacred and of the all remaining
13    and fruit-tributes and coming philanthropic. Bought Totoues of Zmanreus of the from the Memnoneans shrine-servant bronze
14    currency talents ten. Pre-seller and guarantor of the according to the purchase this Pikous the sold, whom received
15    Totoues the bought.
16    Apollonius money-tester.