[META]
id:       PSI 9.1022
label:    PSI 9.1022
name:     Contract — Pathyrites
genre:    contracts
date:     106 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Pathyrites
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Pathyrites (106 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Verkauf — Sporteln — Priester — scriptura interior
tm:       5574
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/psi;9;1022
lat:      25.4833
lon:      32.4833

[GREEK]
r.1    ἔτους ια τοῦ καὶ η ἔτους,
r.2    Φαρμοῦθι κα.
r.3    ἀπέδοτο Πικῶς
r.4    Ψεμμίνιος τοῦ
r.5    ὑπάρχοντος
r.6    αὐτῶι Ἀφροδισιεί …
r.7    ἡμερῶν τριῶν
r.8    χαλκοῦ ταλάντων ϛ.
r.9    βασιλευόντων Κλεοπάτρας καὶ βασιλέως Πτολεμαίου υἱοῦ τοῦ ἐπικαλουμένου αλεξάνδρου θεῶν φιλομητόρων σωτήρων ἔτους ια τοῦ καὶ η ἔτους,
r.10   Φαρμοῦθι κα, ἐφʼ ἱερέως τοῦ ὄντος ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι Ἀλεξάνδρου καὶ θεῶν σωτήρων καὶ θεῶν ἀδελφῶν καὶ θεῶν εὐεργετῶν καὶ θεῶν
r.11   φιλοπατόρων καὶ θεῶν ἐπιφανῶν καὶ θεοῦ φιλομήτορος καὶ θεοῦ εὐπάτορος καὶ θεῶν εὐεργετῶν ἀθλοφόρου Βερενίκης εὐεργέτιδος
r.12   κανηφόρου Ἀρσινόης φιλαδέλφου καὶ θεᾶς Ἀρσινόης εὐπάτορος τῶν ὄντων ἐν Ἀλεξανδρείαι, ἐν δὲ Πτολεμαίδι τῆς
r.13   Θηβαίδ[ο]ς ἐφʼ ἱερέων Πτολεμαίου τοῦ μὲν σωτῆρος τῶν ὄντων καὶ οὐσῶν, ἐπʼ Ἀπολλωνίου τοῦ πρὸς τῆι ἀγορανομίαι τῶν Μεμνονέων τοῦ Παθυρίτου τῆς Θηβαίδος,
r.14   ἀπέδοτο Πικῶς Ψεμμίνιος ὡς ἐτῶν κε μέσος μελίχρως κλαστὸς μακροπρόσωπος εὐθύριν οὐλὴ ὀφρύι ἀριστερῶι ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος αὐτῶι
r.15   γέρως ἡμερῶν τριῶν ἁγνευτικῶν καὶ τὰς τούτων καρπείας καὶ λειτουργίας καὶ τὰ συνκύροντα καὶ προσεσόμενα
r.16   πάντα κατʼ ἐνιαυτὸν ἕκαστον καὶ τὸ ἐπιβάλλον αὐτῶι μέρος τῶν ἐπαγομένων καὶ τὰ προσκύροντα τούτοις πάντα ἐν ἱερῷ
r.17   Ἀφροδισιείου καλουμένῳ Ἁθὺρ ἐν τοῖς κατὰ τοὺς τῶν Μεμνονέων τάφοις. ἐπρίατο Τοτοῆς Ζμανρέους τῶν ἐκ τῶν
r.18   Μεμνονέων παστοφόρων ὡς ἐτῶν λε μέσος μελίχρως τετανὸς στρογγυλοπρόσωπος εὐθύριν χαλκοῦ νομίσματος ταλάντων ϛ. προπωλητὴς καὶ
r.19   βεβαιωτὴς τῶν κατὰ τὴν ὠνὴν ταύτην Πικῶς ὁ ἀποδόμενος, ὃν ἐδέξατο Τοτοῆς ὁ πριάμενος.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Year 11 of [... and year] 8,
2     Pharmouth 21.
3     Pikos sold
4     Psemminos of
5     his property
6     of him, Aphrodisieion …
7     of three days
8     of copper, talents 6.
9     Kingdom of Cleopatra and of king Ptolemy, son of the called Alexander, gods philomaters, saviors, year 11 of [... and year] 8,
10    Pharmouth 21, in the priesthood of the one in Alexandria of Alexander and gods saviors and gods siblings and gods benefactors and gods
11    philopators and gods epiphanies and god philometer and god eupator and gods benefactors, prize-bearing Berenice, benefactress
12    kanephoros of Arsinoe philadelph and goddess Arsinoe eupator of those in Alexandria, and in Ptolemais of the
13    Thebaid, in the priesthood of Ptolemy of the [one] savior of those existing and existing, under Apollonius of the agoranomy of the Memnonia of Pathyrite of the Thebaid,
14    Pikos, son of Psemminos, about 25 years old, of medium dark complexion, curly-haired, long-faced, straight-nosed, with a scar on his left eyebrow, from his [property of]
15    the Geroon of three days of ritual purity and its fruits and services and the incidents and [that will be] accruing
16    all each year and the apportioned part of him of the incurred [expenses] and all things accruing to these in the shrine
17    of Aphrodisieion, called Athur, in those around the tombs of the Memnonia. Totoes, son of Zmanreos, of those from the
18    Memnonia shrine-keepers, about 35 years old, of medium dark complexion, tense-faced, round-faced, straight-nosed, of copper currency talents 6, pre-seller and
19    warrantor of those according to this purchase Pikos the one selling, whom Totoes the buyer received.