[META]
id:       PSI 12.1249
label:    PSI 12.1249
name:     Contract — Oxyrhynchos
genre:    contracts
date:     265 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Oxyrhynchos
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Oxyrhynchos (265 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Lieferung — Wein
tm:       17412
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/psi;12;1249
lat:      28.542574
lon:      30.65172

[GREEK]
r.1    Αὐρήλιοι Σαραπίων ὁ καὶ Ἀπολλωνιανὸς γυμνασίαρχος βουλευτὴς τῆς
r.2    Ὀξυρυγχειτῶν πόλεως καὶ ἡ μήτηρ
r.3    Διοσκουρίαινα ἡ καὶ Σαβεῖνα
r.4    θυγάτηρ Διοσκουρίδου εὐθηνιαρχήσαντος τῆς λαμπροτάτης πόλεως
r.5    τῶν Ἀλεξανδρέων, μετʼ ἐγγύου εἰς
r.6    ἔκτισιν Αὐρηλίου Ἥρωνος τοῦ καὶ Ἀγαθοῦ Δαίμονος βουλευτοῦ τῆς αὐτῆς Ὀξυρυγχειτῶν πόλεως, Αὐρηλίοις
r.7    Θέωνι τῷ καὶ Ὠριγένει γυμνασιάρχῳ βουλευτῇ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως καὶ
r.8    τῇ τούτου γυναικὶ Διδύμῃ τῇ καὶ Ἀντιοχείῃ θυγατρὶ Ἱέρακος τοῦ καὶ Σαραπίωνος γυμνασιαρχήσαντος καὶ πρυτανεύσαντος βουλευτοῦ τῆς αὐτῆς πόλεως χαίρειν. ὁμολογοῦμεν ἐσχηκέναι
r.9    παρʼ ὑμῶν τιμὴν πλήρη οἴνου γενήματος τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ιβ ἔτους κεραμίων
r.10   Ὀξυρυγχειτικῶν τετραχόων λεγομένων
r.11   ἀριθμῷ διακοσίων τεσσάρων , σοῦ μὲν
r.12   τοῦ Θέωνος κεραμίων πεντηκονταενός ,
r.13   σοῦ δὲ κεραμίων ἑκατὸν πεντηκοντατριῶν · ὅνπερ οἶνον παραδώσομεν
r.14   ὑμῖν ἀπὸ κτήματος περὶ Χύσιν Παβοκ καλουμένου παρὰ ληνὸν μέτρῳ
r.15   ᾧ τὸ ὅλον γένημα ἐξαντλεῖται ἐν καινοκεράμοις τῷ Μεσορὴ μηνὶ χωρὶς
r.16   πάσης ὑπερθέσεως· εἰ δὲ μή, ἐκτείσομεν ὑμῖν τὴν ἐπὶ τοῦ τότε καιροῦ
r.17   ἐσομένην τοῦ οἴνου τιμὴν διπλῆν, γεινομένης ὑμῖν τῆς πράξεως παρά τε
r.18   ἡμῶν καὶ τοῦ ἐγγύου ἀλληλεγγύων ὄντων
r.19   εἰς ἔκτεισιν, καὶ ἐξ οὗ ἐὰν ἡμῶν αἱρῆσθε, ὡς καθήκει. κυρία ἡ κατὰ χειρόγραφον συναλλαγὴ δισσὴ γραφεῖσα πανταχῇ ἐπιφερομένη καὶ παντὶ τῷ ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν ἐπιφέροντι.
r.20   περὶ δὲ τοῦ ταῦτα ὀρθῶς καλῶς γενέσθαι ἐπερωτηθέντες ἡμεῖς τε καὶ ὁ ἐνγυητὴς ὡμολογήσαμεν. ἔτους ιβ Αὐτοκράτορος
r.21   Καίσαρος Πουπλίου Λικιννίου Γαλλιηνοῦ Γερμανικοῦ
r.22   μεγίστου εὐσεβοῦς εὐτυχοῦς σεβαστοῦ, Ἐπεὶφ ια.
r.23   Αὐρήλιος Σπαρτιάτης ὁ καὶ Παυσανίας διʼ ἐμοῦ τῆς μητρὸς
r.24   Αὐρηλίας Διοσκουριαίνης τῆς
r.25   καὶ Σαβείνης ἔσχον τὴν τιμὴν τῶν τοῦ οἴνου
r.26   κεραμίων διακοσίων τεσσάρων καὶ ἀποδώσω ὡς
r.27   πρόκειται· καὶ ἐπερωτηθεῖσα ὡμολόγησα. Αὐρήλιος Σαραπίων ὁ καὶ Ἀπολλωνιανὸς γυμνασίαρχος
r.28   ἀπέσχον τὴν τιμὴν τῶν τοῦ οἴνου κεραμίων διακοσίων τεσσάρων καὶ ἀποδώσω ὡς πρόκειται· καὶ ἐπερωτηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα.
r.29   Αὐρήλιος Ἥρων ὁ καὶ Ἀγαθὸς Δαίμων ἐνγυῶμαι εἰς ἔκτισιν τοῦ προκειμένου
r.30   οἴνου, μένοντός σοι τοῦ λόγου περὶ ὧν ἄλλων ὀφείλεταί σοι· καὶ ἐπε[ρω]τηθεὶς ὡμολόγησα.

[TRANSLATION]
1     Aurelius Sarapion the also Apollonian, gymnasiarchus, councilor of the
2     Oxyrhynchite city, and the mother
3     Dioscuriana the also Sabina,
4     daughter of Dioscurides, having been eutheniarch of the most brilliant city
5     of the Alexandrians, with a guarantor for
6     reconstruction, Aurelius Heron the also Good Demon, councilor of the same Oxyrhynchite city, to Aurelius
7     Theon the also Origen, gymnasiarchus, councilor of the same city, and
8     to his wife Didyme the also Antiocheia, daughter of Hierax the also Sarapion, having been gymnasiarchus and having been prytaneus, councilor of the same city, greetings. We acknowledge to have received
9     from you price full of wine, vintage of the present twelve year, ceramic vessels
10    of Oxyrhynchite, four-measure calls
11    in number, two hundred four, of which
12    of you Theon of ceramic vessels, fifty-one,
13    and of you, of ceramic vessels, one hundred fifty-three; which wine we will deliver
14    to you from estate near Khysis, Paboke being called, beside wine-vat, by measure
15    by which the whole vintage is drained out in new-ceramic vessels in the Mesore month without
16    all delay; but if not, we will pay to you the at the then time
17    being-the of the wine price double, there having been to you the recovery from both
18    us and of the guarantor, mutually bound,
19    to payment, and from whichever of us you might choose, as is fitting. Sovereign the according to hand-written transaction double written everywhere being brought and to every one the on behalf of you bringing.
20    Concerning which these [things] correctly, well, having happened, when questioned, we and the guarantor acknowledged. In year twelve, Autocrat
21    Caesar Publius Licinnius Gallienus, Germanic
22    greatest, devout, fortunate, august. Epeiph 11.
23    Aurelius Spartiatae the also Pausanias, through me the mother,
24    Aurelia Dioscuriana,
25    the also Sabina, I received the price of the of wine
26    ceramic vessels two hundred four, and I will repay, as
27    aforestated; and when questioned, I acknowledged. Aurelius Sarapion the also Apollonian, gymnasiarchus,
28    I received the price of the of wine ceramic vessels, two hundred four, and I will repay, as aforestated; and when questioned, I acknowledged.
29    Aurelius Heron the also Good Demon, I guarantee for reconstruction of the aforementioned
30    wine, remaining to you the account concerning which other things are owed to you; and when questioned, I acknowledged.