[META]
id:       PSI 8.905dupl
label:    PSI 8.905dupl
name:     Contract — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     25 CE – 26 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (25 CE – 26 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Parachoresis
tm:       13804
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/psi;8;905dupl
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    … υσεως παραγε … γὰρ
r.2    σὺν ταῖς γυναιξὶ vestig γυναῖκες εἰ ἔχει αὐτῶν
r.3    Ἀπολλώνιος καὶ Δίδυμος ἀμφότεροι Ἀπολλωνίου ὁμολογοῦμεν παρακεχωρηκέναι Ζήνωνι Πτολεμαίου,
r.4    ὥστε αὐτῶι καὶ ἐκγόνοις αὐτοῦ καὶ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ εἰς μετεπιγραφὴν ἀπὸ τῆς προγεγραμμένης ἡμέρας
r.5    ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον ἀπὸ τοῦ ὑπάρχοντος ἡμῖν πατρικοῦ κατοικικοῦ κλήρου περὶ Ταλεὶ ἀπὸ ἀρουρῶν
r.6    τεσσάρων ἢ ὅσαι ἂν ὦσι ἀρούρας δύο σὺν τῶι κριθίνωι σπόρωι σχοινίωι ἐνενηκονταεξαπήχει
r.7    τῶι πρὸς τὴν ἐπὶ τοῦ Φρεμεὶ κρηπῖδα· ὧν γείτονες τῶν δύο ἀρουρῶν νότου Ταορσεῦτος τῆς Χαιρήμωνος, βορρᾶ Μυσθαρίωνος τοῦ Πύρρου ἀμπελὼν καὶ Ἀλκίμου κλῆρος, λιβὸς ἡμῶν αἱ λοιπαὶ ἄρουραι δύο ,
r.8    ἀπηλιώτου τοῦ πριαμένου κλῆρος. καὶ ἀπέχομεν τὸ παραχωρητικὸν ἀργυρικὸν κεφάλαιον καὶ
r.9    βεβαιώσομεν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων καὶ ἐπιγραφῶν καὶ ἀρταβίας καὶ ναυβίων καὶ ἀριθμητικῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων πάντων τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ δωδεκάτου ἔτους
r.10   καὶ αὐτοῦ [τοῦ] δωδεκάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐμποιήσεως
r.11   διὰ παντὸς ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον καὶ ποτιεῖ κατὰ τὰς ἔτι ἄνωθεν συνηθείας. εὐδοκεῖ δὲ ἡ τοῦ Ἀπολλωνίου γυνὴ Ταπαεῖς ἡ καὶ Ταπιτύνις Πετεεῦτος καὶ ἡ τοῦ Διδύμου γυνὴ Ταορσεῦς Μιεῦτος μετὰ κυρίου
r.12   ἑκατέρας τοῦ ἀνδρός, καὶ μὴ ἐπελεύσεσθαι. ἔγραψεν ὑπὲρ αὐτῶν Ἡρώδης Ἡρώδου διὰ τὸ τὸν Ἀπολλώνιον
r.13   μὴ εἰδέναι γράμματα, τὸν δὲ Δίδυμον βραδύτερα γράφειν. Δίδυμος Ἀπολλωνίου συναπέχω καὶ συνβεβαιώσω
r.14   καθὼς πρόκιται, καὶ ἐπιτέταχα γράφειν. Ζήνων Πτολεμαίου γέγονε εἴς
r.15   [με] ἡ παραχ[ώ]ρησις τῶν Διδύμου καὶ …
r.16   τη … ις προκιταις ?.

[TRANSLATION]
1     … …ing pass … for
2     together with the women … women if he has of them
3     Apollonius and Didymus both of Apollonius we acknowledge having conveyed [to] Zenon of Ptolemaeus,
4     so that to him and to descendants of him and to those from him for re-recording from the before-written day
5     to the entire time from the existing to us paternal residential lot about Talei from arouras
6     four or however many they might be arouras two with the barley seed rope ninety-six-cubit
7     to the toward the upon Fremei foundation; whose boundaries of the two arouras to the south Taorseut of Chairemons, to the north Mystharion of Pyrrhus vineyard and Alcimus's lot, to the west ours the remaining arouras two,
8     to the east of the purchased lot. And we have received the conveyance [of] silver principal and
9     we will guarantee with all guarantee from indeed public [obligations] and registrations and grain-tax and ship-tax and recorder-tax and the other all from the upon past times until the twelfth year
10    and itself [the] twelfth year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, from but private and all mortgage
11    through all upon the entire time and he will pay according to the still above customs. And the wife of Apollonius Tapais also called Tapitynis of Peteus and the wife of Didymus Taorseut of Mieus with lord
12    each of the husband agree, and not to come against [it]. Wrote on behalf of them Herodes of Herodes through the that Apollonius
13    not to know letters, the but Didymus more slowly to write. Didymus of Apollonius co-have and co-guarantee
14    as stands before, and I have ordered to write. Zenon of Ptolemaeus it has come into
15    [to] me the convey[ance] of Didymus and …
16    the … is stands before ?.