[META]
id:       SB 18.13274
label:    SB 18.13274
name:     Documentary papyrus
genre:    documents
date:     unknown
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    unknown
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Documentary papyrus (unknown)
tm:       36279c
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/sb;18;13274
lat:      
lon:      

[GREEK]
r.1    τοῖς πᾶσιν εὔδηλον καθέστηκεν ὡς τὴν ἄνωθεν καὶ ἐκ φύσεως προσκυρωθεῖσαν
r.2    τοῖς ἀνθρώποις ἐλευθερίαν οὐδὲ χρόνος πολὺς οὐδὲ πλάνη παρακολουθήσασα μειῶσαι
r.3    δυνήσεται. Ἰακὼβ γὰρ, ἐκ τῆς Ἀνταιοπολιτῶν ὁρμώμενος, καὶ διάξας μετὰ τοῦ ἐν ἁγίοις μου
r.4    πατρὸς καιρὸν οὐκ ὀλίγον, πλείστην αὐτῷ θεραπείαν ἀπένειμεν. συνδιήγαγεν δὲ αὐτῷ καὶ Σοφία,
r.5    σύμβιος ἐκείνου εὐνοεικωτατα, παραμένουσα μετὰ τοῦ αὐτῆς ἀνδρὸς τοῦ προονομασμένου
r.6    Ἰακὼβ τῷ ἐν ἁγίοις δεσπότῃ μου τῷ ἐν λαμπρᾷ τῇ μνήμῃ πατρὶ. καὶ οὐδεμίαν ἐμφάνειαν πώποτε
r.7    ηὖρον παρά τε τοῦ ἐμοῦ πατρὸς οὐδὲ παρʼ ἑτέρου οὐδὲ μὴν συνάλλαγμα, ὡς δοῦλοι καθεστήκασιν ἀπό τινος οἵου δήποτε
r.8    νομίμου τίτλου. ἐξ ἐκείνων τοίνυν τῶν προονομασμένων Ἰακὼβ καὶ Σοφίας, παῖδες
r.9    καθεστήκασιν Λία καὶ Ῥαχὴλ καὶ Ῥεβέκκα. ἐκ Λίας τίκτεται παῖς Μάρκος· καὶ Μάρκος καὶ Σοφία, ἀλλὰ
r.10   Λίας τέλει τοῦ βίου ἐχρήσατο, ὡς τὸ θεῖον ἐβουλήθη, μετὰ τοῦ αὐτῆς υἱοῦ Μάρκου. καὶ Σοφία δὲ
r.11   ἡ περιοῦσα, θυγάτηρ δὲ ταύτης τῆς ἀπελθούσης Λίας τίκτει Ἰωάννην
r.12   καὶ Ἰσὰκ καὶ Ἰακὼβ καὶ ἄλλοι ἔκ τινος ἐλευθερίου, ταύτην μετὰ τῶν αὐτῶν παίδων ἕλκοντες
r.13   εἰς δουλείαν ὄψονται ἀπαντῶντες τῷ φοβερωτάτῳ βήματι τοῦ Κρείττονος. καὶ ταῦτα μὲν περὶ τούτου.
r.14   ἐπεὶ τοίνυν ἐκείνων τῶν προδηλωθέντων Ἰακὼβ καὶ Σοφίας, ὡς ἀνωτέρω
r.15   δεδήλωται, γεγένηται Ῥαχὴλ καὶ Ῥεβέκκα καὶ Λία, καὶ Ῥαχὴλ μὲν μονήρη βίον εἵλατο.
r.16   Λία δὲ τίκτει Σοφίαν τὴν περιοῦσαν τὰ νῦν καὶ Ῥεβέκκα Εὐλογίαν καὶ Μάρθαν. ἀλλὰ Εὐλογία τὸν ἀσκητικὸν
r.17   μονήρη βίον εἵλατο καὶ αὐτὴ περιλείπεται δὲ Μάρθα ἡ Εὐλογίας ἀδελφὴ, θυγάτηρ Ῥεβέκκας τῆς μακαρίας ἐν τῷ ἐμῷ οἴκῳ διάγουσα. καὶ ἵνα μὴ χρόνῳ
r.18   τινὶ ὑπό τινος τῶν ὡς εἰκὸς διαδεχομένων τὰ ἐμὰ δίκαια, μακρογηραῴη τὸν ἐμὸν λογιώτατον
r.19   κληρονόμον, ἐπὶ πλεῖστον δὲ χρόνον τὸν ἐμὸν λογιώτατον υἱὸν καὶ κληρονόμον Βίκτορα φυλάξῃ τὸ θεῖον τῶν οἰκείων ἀπολαύοντα, ἵνα τοίνυν
r.20   μὴ παρενοχλήσῃ Μάρθα οἵα δούλη τυγχάνουσῃ, τούτου χάριν ἐπὶ τὴν παροῦσαν ἐλήλυθα
r.21   ἔγγραφον ὁμολογίαν, διʼ ἧς ἐννοῶ μὲν αὐτὴν καὶ ἀκριβῶς ἐπίσταμαι μὴ εἶναι
r.22   παντελῶς δούλην μήτε ἐκ δούλης γεγενῆσθαι, καθʼ ὅν προαφηγησάμην τρόπον·
r.23   εἰ δὲ καὶ ὡς εἰκὸς πειραθείη τις τῶν μετὰ ταῦτα ἐνοχλῆσαι αὐτῇ, ἐκ ταύτης τῆς
r.24   ἐγγράφου ὁμολογίας, ᾗτινι καὶ συναινεῖν παρεσκεύσασα τὸν λογιώτατον σὺν Θεῷ δὲ
r.25   ἐμὸν κληρονόμον, διʼ ἧς προτρέπομαι αὐτὴν ἐντεῦθεν ἤδη τὰ τῶν ἐλευθέρων
r.26   διαπράξασθαι τε καὶ τὰ τοῖς ἐλευθέροις ἁρμόττοντα ποιεῖν. ἀκήκοα γὰρ αὐτῆς κατὰ τὸν παρόντα καιρὸν
r.27   φθεγγομένης καὶ ἐρωτωμένης περί τινος κεφαλαίου ἀνήκοντος αὐτῇ ὡς οὐ καθέστηκα
r.28   ἐλευθέρα. καὶ τούτου χάριν τὸ κρῖμα τοῦ Θεοῦ φοβηθεὶς καὶ ἐννοήσας τὴν φιλανθρωπίαν
r.29   τοῦ Σωτῆρος ἀπεστέναξα, καὶ ἐπὶ τὴν παροῦσαν ἦλθον
r.30   ἔγγραφον ὁμολογίαν, διʼ ἧς ἐγγράφου ὁμολογίας προετρεψάμην
r.31   αὐτὴν γνῶναι ὥς ἐστιν μὲν ἐλευθέρα. εἰ δὲ καὶ ὡς εἰκὸς
r.32   δούλην αὐτὴν ἐπιχ[ειρῆσαί τις λέγειν ], γινέσθω
r.33   διὰ τῆς παρούσης ἐγγράφου ὁμολογίας ἐλευθέρα τοῦ
r.34   λοιποῦ, μὴ ὀχλουμένη ὑπʼ οὐδενὸς μηδὲ ὑπὸ τοῦ ἐλλογιμωτάτου
r.35   καὶ ποθεινοτάτου [ἐμοῦ κληρονόμου τοῦ] καὶ συναινέσαντος κατὰ κέλευσιν
r.36   ἐμὴν καὶ ἐπιτροπὴν ταύτῃ τῇ ἐγγράφῳ ὁμολογίᾳ. τοῦ λοιποῦ τοίνυν
r.37   μηδὲν ὑφοράσθω μήδε ἐννοείτω τινὰ δύνασθαι λέγειν αὐτὴν
r.38   δούλην, ἀλλὰ ἔστω καθὼς προδεδήλωται ἐλευθέρα, μηδενὸς
r.39   δυναμένου τὴν ἄνωθεν αὐτῇ δεδομένην ἐλευθερίαν καταβλάψαι

[TRANSLATION]
1     To all it is evident that the liberty from above and by nature confirmed
2     to humans liberty, neither much time nor wandering having accompanied, [to] diminish
3     is able. For Jacob, proceeding from the Antaiopolis, and having lived together with my holy
4     father a time not small, most [great] service rendered. And Sophia lived together with him,
5     his companion most benevolently, remaining with her husband the aforementioned
6     Jacob with my holy lord, the in-bright memory father. And no evidence ever
7     did I find, either from my father nor from another, nor any record, as [if] they have been established slaves from whatever
8     lawful title. From those therefore the aforementioned Jacob and Sophia, children
9     have been established Lia and Rachel and Rebecca. From Lia [there] is born child Mark; and Mark and Sophia, but
10    Lia at the end of life used [it], as the divine wished, with her son Mark. And Sophia indeed
11    the surviving [one], but daughter of this departed Lia bears John
12    and Isaac and Jacob and others from some free [man], these with the same children dragging/drawing
13    into slavery they shall see, coming before the most fearful judgment-seat of the Superior. And these things indeed concerning that.
14    Since therefore of those aforementioned Jacob and Sophia, as above
15    has been shown, [there] have come to be Rachel and Rebecca and Lia, and Rachel indeed chose a solitary life.
16    But Lia bears Sophia the surviving [one] now and Rebecca [bears] Eulogia and Martha. But Eulogia the ascetic
17    solitary life chose, and she too, but Martha the sister of Eulogia, daughter of blessed Rebecca, in my house spending time. And lest in time
18    by someone of those as is likely succeeding to my rights, [someone] reaching old age might prolong my most learned
19    heir, for a very long time my most learned son and heir Victor [should] guard the divine of his own possessions, enjoying [them], in order therefore
20    that Martha [might] not be troubled, as [if] she were a slave, on account of this, to this present [document] I have come
21    written agreement, through which I intend her and precisely know not to be
22    entirely a slave, nor to have come from a slave, in the way which I have recounted above;
23    But even if, as is likely, someone of those afterwards should try to trouble her, from this
24    written agreement, which I have also prepared the most learned [one] to agree with, with God
25    my heir, through which I exhort her henceforward already [to] the things of the free
26    to accomplish and the things fitting to the free to do. For I have heard her at the present time
27    speaking and being asked about a certain principal belonging to her, as [if] I have not established
28    [her as] free. And on account of this, fearing the judgment of God and considering the mercy
29    of the Savior, I sighed, and to this present [document] I came
30    written agreement, through which written agreement I have exhorted
31    her to know that she is indeed free. But even if, as is likely,
32    [someone] should venture to call her a slave, let [her] come to be
33    through this present written agreement free from
34    henceforth, not bothered by anyone, nor by the most esteemed
35    and most beloved [my heir …] and consenting according to [my] command
36    of me and entrustment to this written agreement. From henceforth therefore
37    let nothing be suspected, nor let [anyone] suppose [that] someone is able to say her
38    a slave, but let her be as has been aforementioned free, no one
39    being able to harm the liberty given her from above