[META]
id:       SB 22.15496
label:    SB 22.15496
name:     Petition — Antiochia (Syria Coele)
genre:    petitions
date:     245 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Antiochia (Syria Coele)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Antiochia (Syria Coele) (245 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Archodes u.a. an den Präfekten von Mesopotamien und von Koile - Syrien Iulius Priscus
tm:       23921
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/sb;22;15496
lat:      37.596986
lon:      27.982969

[GREEK]
r.1    ἐπὶ ὑπάτων Αὐτοκράτορος Καίσαρος Μάρκου Ἰουλίου Φιλίππου Σεβαστοῦ καὶ Μαισίου Τιττιανοῦ πρὸ πέντε καλανσῶν Σεπτεμβρίων ἔτους τρίτου ? ς μηνὸς Λῴου ηκ ἐν Ἀντιοχείᾳ κολωνίᾳ μητροπόλει ἐν
r.2    ταῖς Ἁδριαναῖς Θερμαῖς.
r.3    Ἰουλίῳ Πρίσκῳ τῷ διασημοτάτῳ ἐπάρχῳ Μεσοποταμίας διέποντι τὴν ὑπατείαν παρὰ Ἀρχώδου
r.4    Φαλλαιου καὶ Φιλώτα Νισραιαβου καὶ Ουορωδου Συμισβαραχου καὶ Αβεδσαυτα Αβεδιαρδα ὄντων ἀπὸ κώμης Βηφφούρης κυριακῆς τῆς περὶ Ἀππάδαναν. ἔχοντες, κύριε, ἀμφισβήτησιν μεταξὺ τῶν συνκωμητῶν ἡμῶν περὶ χώρας καὶ ἑτέρων, ἀνήλθομεν ἐνταῦθα δικαιολογήσασθαι παρὰ τῇ σῇ χρηστότητι καὶ σχολάσαντες τῷ σῷ δικαστηρίῳ μῆνας ὀκτὼ προσήχθη τὸ πρᾶγμα, καθὰ διαμνημονεύει σου τὸ μέγεθος, τῇ πρὸ ἐννέα καλανδῶν Σεπτεμβρίων τῶν πρόσφατον διελθουσῶν καὶ σὺ ὁ εὐεργέτης ἀκούσας μέρους τοῦ πράγματος ἐκέλευσας ὥστε ἐπὰν εὐτυχῶς ἐν τοῖς τόποις ἔσῃ ὅρον δοῦναι. ἐπεὶ οὖν ἕως τῆς δεῦρο τὸ πρᾶγμα κρίσιν οὐκ ἔλαβεν, ἐπιχειροῦσιν δὲ οἱ συγκωμῆται ἐκβάλλειν ἡμᾶς τῆς χώρας ἐν ᾗ τυγχάνομεν καὶ βιάζεσθαι πρὸ δίκης, κελεύουσιν
r.5    δὲ αἱ θεῖαι διατάξεις, ἃς γε πρὸ πάντων γνωρίζων προσκυνεῖς, τοὺς καταλαμβ[αν]ομένους ἐν τῇ
r.6    νομῇ μέχρι δίκης ἐκείνους ἐν αὐτῇ εἶναι, διὰ τοῦτο κατεφύγομεν ἐπὶ σὲ καὶ δεόμεθά σου κελεῦσαι διʼ ὑπογραφῆς σου Κλαυδίῳ Ἀρί[σ]τωνι τῷ κρατίστῳ ἐπιτρόπῳ τῷ ἐν Ἀππαδάνᾳ, ὑφʼ ὃν ἡ διοίκησίς ἐστιν, ἐν ἀκεραίῳ πάντα τηρηθῆναι καὶ βίαν κωλυθῆναι μέχρι
r.7    τῆς σῆς εἰς τοὺς τόπους ἐσομ[έ]νης σου εὐτυχῶς ἐπιδημίας ὅπως, τούτου ἐπιτυχόντες, ἕξωμέν σου τῇ τύχῃ διὰ παντὸς εὐχαριστεῖν. Αὐρήλιος Ἀρχώδης Φαλλαιου ἐπέδωκα
r.8    καὶ εἰς τὸν τῶν ἑτέρων λόγον.
r.9    ὑπογραφὴ Ἰουλίου Πρίσκου τοῦ διασημοτάτου ἐπάρχου Μεσοποταμίας διέποντος
r.10   τὴν ὑπατείαν· ὁ Ἀρίστων ὁ κράτιστος τὴν ἀξίωσίν
r.11   σου δοκιμάσει.
r.12   Legi σθ
r.13   λίβελλος Ἀρχώδ[ου] Φαλλαιου καὶ Φιλώ[τα]
r.14   Νισραιαβου.

[TRANSLATION]
1     In the consulship of Emperor Caesar Marcus Julius Philippus Augustus and Maesius Titianus, five days before the Kalends of September, in the third year ... month of Loios 28, in Antioch, colony, metropolis, in
2     the Hadrianic Hot Springs.
3     To Julius Priscus, the most distinguished prefect of Mesopotamia, exercising the consulship, from Archodes
4     Phallaeus and Philota Nisraiabu and Ouorodus Symisbarchos and Abedsauta Abediarda being from the village of Beiphures which is subject to the region around Appadana. Having, master, a dispute among our fellow villagers concerning land and other matters, we came up here to present our case to your kindness and attending your court for eight months, the matter was brought forward, as your greatness well remembers, on the ninth day before the Kalends of September recently passed, and you, the benefactor, hearing part of the matter, ordered that whenever you are happily in those places you give a judgment. Since then until now the matter has not received a decision, and our fellow villagers are attempting to expel us from the land in which we hold [it] and to compel [us] before trial, they order
5     that the divine ordinances, which you acknowledge and honor before all, [those] being seized in the
6     possession until trial that those [remain] in it, on account of this we have fled to you and we beg you to order by your signature to Claudius Ar[iston], the most excellent prefect in Appadana, under whom is the administration, to preserve everything unimpaired and to prevent force until
7     your arrival happily in those places so that, obtaining this, we shall have you to thank by fortune forever. Aurelius Archodes Phallaeus have submitted [this]
8     and on behalf of the others as well.
9     Signature of Julius Priscus the most distinguished prefect of Mesopotamia exercising
10    the consulship: Ariston the most excellent [will examine] your petition
11    of you.
12    Legit 69
13    Petition of Archodes [Phallaeus] and Philota
14    Nisraiabu.