[META]
id:       SB 6.9458
label:    SB 6.9458
name:     Petition — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    petitions
date:     151 CE – 200 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (151 CE – 200 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Beschwerde — überhöhte Gebühren (Fracht)
tm:       27815
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/sb;6;9458
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    παρὰ Κρονίωνος Πακήβκεως τοῦ Ἁρποκρατίωνος ἱερέως ἀπολυσίμου ἱεροῦ λογίμου κώμης Τεπτύνεως καὶ διαδόχου προφητείας τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἱεροῦ, ὕβριν οὐ τὴν τύχουσαν παθόντος ἀπὸ Κρονίου τινὸς ἀνθρώπου τολμηροῦ. ἔχει δὲ οὕτως. ἑαυτὸν γὰρ
r.2    ἀνέσεισεν εἰς τὸ ἀπαιτῆσαι ναῦλα τοῦ ἐφʼ ὅρμον κατακομιζομένου τῆς κώμης
r.3    πυροῦ καὶ ἀντὶ τοῦ διδομένου ὑπʼ αὐτοῦ ναύλου ἑκάστου σάκκου ὀβολῶν ιθ αὐτὸς τοῦ σάκκου
r.4    ἀπαιτεῖ τῇ ἑαυτοῦ τόλμῃ καὶ ἀναιδείᾳ ὅλους ὀβολοὺς λ. καὶ ἐγὼ οὖν ἀποδοὺς ὧν ἐμέτρησα τὸ συναγόμενον πρὸ[ς] ὃ καὶ αὐτὸς
r.5    ἐξωδιάζει, καὶ ἐμὲ βουλόμεν[ο]ς ἐργολαβῆσαι, κατʼ ἐμὴν ἀπουσίαν ἐπῆ[λ]θʼ ἐν τῇ οἰκίᾳ
r.6    μου καὶ ὕβριν τὴν ἀνωτάτην ἐποίησεν
r.7    ἐπὶ τοσοῦτον ὥστε καὶ παιδ[ί]σκας μου ἐν
r.8    μέσῃ πλατείᾳ ἀποδῦσαι τὰς περὶ αὐτὰς
r.9    ἐσθῆτας· οὐκ ἀρκεσθεὶς ἐπὶ τούτοις ἀλλὰ καὶ ἠργολάβησεν αὐτάς. καὶ δὴ παραγενομένου μου καὶ περὶ τούτων λογοποιουμένου πρὸς αὐτόν, ἀνεπιστρεπτήσας
r.10   τῇ αὐτῇ τόλμῃ ἐπειράθη καὶ πρὸς ἐμὲ
r.11   χρήσασθαι. ὅθεν κατὰ τὸ ἀναγκαῖον ἐπιδίδωμι καὶ ἀξιῶ ἐπεξελθεῖν σε τοῖς ὑπʼ αὐτοῦ αὐθάδως διαπεπραγμένοις καὶ ὦ βεβοηθημένος. διευτύχει.

[TRANSLATION]
1     From Kronion of Pakebkes, son of Harpocratis, priest of the waivable sacred property of the recorded village of Tebtynis and successor of the prophecy of the same shrine, having suffered insult no light matter from Kronios, a person bold. But it is thus: for himself
2     he stirred up for demanding freight-charges of the grain being brought into the harbor of the village
3     of grain and instead of the freight being given by him for each sack of nineteen obols, he himself for the sack
4     demands by his audacity and shamelessness full thirty obols. And so I having paid what I measured together for which also he
5     is demanding in addition, and wishing me to hire him, during my absence came upon my house
6     and insult the highest perpetrated
7     to such a degree so that even my maidservants in
8     the middle of the street to strip off the garments about them
9     clothes; not content with this but also he engaged them. And when I was present and discussing these matters with him, turning back without reply
10    with the same audacity he attempted also against me
11    to act. Wherefore according to necessity I submit this and request you to take action against what he has willfully perpetrated and indeed been assisted. Prosper well.