[META]
id:       SB 6.9109
label:    SB 6.9109
name:     Contract — Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
genre:    contracts
date:     31 CE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Tebtynis (Arsinoites)
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Contract from Tebtynis (Arsinoites) (31 CE)
# hgv-keywords: Vertrag — Kauf — Land — Weingarten
tm:       14109
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/sb;6;9109
lat:      29.10713705
lon:      30.7620317

[GREEK]
r.1    τ[ὸν] Κρονίωνα παρὰ τοῦ Σωκράτους τὸ ἑσταμένον ὑπὲρ τῶν πρ[ο]κιμένων ἀρουρῶν δύο ἀργυρικὸν παραχωρητικὸν
r.2    πᾶν κεφάλαιον καὶ βεβαιώσειν αὐτόν τε Κρονίωνα καὶ τοὺς παρʼ αὐτοῦ τῶι Σωκράτῃ καὶ τοῖς παρʼ αὐτοῦ τὰ κατὰ τὴν
r.3    παραχώρησιν ταύτην πάσῃ βεβαιώσει ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων ὀφειλημάτων πάντων καὶ ἐπιγραφῶν πασῶν καὶ παντὸς εἴδους τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος ἑπτακαιδεκάτου ἔτους καὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ ἐνεστῶτος
r.4    [ἑ]πτακαιδεκάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐμποιήσεως ἐπὶ τὸν ἅπαντα χρόνον, καὶ μήτε προπεπραμένας μηδὲ μέρους μηδὲ ὑποτιθεμένας μηδὲ ἐξηλλοτριωμένας τρόπωι μηθενί.
r.5    ὅ τι δʼ ἂν τῶν προγεγραμμένων παρασυνγραφῇ Κρονίων, ἣν μὲν ἐὰν ποιήσηται τοῦ παρʼ αὐτοῦ περὶ τούτων ἔφοδον
r.6    [ἢ] ἔνκλησιν ἢ ἐμποίησιν ἢ κώλυσιν ἢ κακοτέχνησιν κατὰ πᾶν μέρος ἄκυρος ἔστω καὶ προσαποτισάτω τῶι Σωκράτῃ τά τε βλάβη
r.7    καὶ δαπανήματα διπλᾶ καὶ ἐπίτιμον ἀργυρίου δραχμὰς χιλίας καὶ εἰς τὸ τὸ δημόσιον τὰς ἴσας. καὶ μηδὲν ἧσ[σ]ον ἐπάναγκον δὲ ἀναδώσει ὁ Κρονίων τῶι Σωκράτῃ τὰ σύμβολα καὶ τὰς εἰς αὐτὸν οἰκονομίας. ἡ συνγραφὴ κυρία ἔστω πανταχῇ.
r.8    Κρονίων Ζωίλου ὁμολογῶ πεπρακέναι τῶι ὁμοπατρίῳ καὶ ὁμομητρίῳ μου ἀδελφῶι Σωκράτῃ τὰς ὑπαρχούσας μοι περὶ Φνεβίη κάτω τῆς Πολέμονος μερίδος χέρσου ἀμπελίτιδος ἀρούρας δύο ἢ ὅσαι ἐὰν ὦσι ἐν μιᾷ σφραγῖδι, ὧν γείτονες νότου πρότερον Σαραπίωνος νυνὶ δὲ Τρύφωνος τοῦ Πτολεμαίου
r.9    γυμνασιάρχου ἀμπελών, βορρᾶ ὑδραγωγὸς διʼ οὗ ποτίζονται αἱ σημαινόμεναι ἄρουραι δύο , λιβὸς χέρσος ἀμπελῖτις, ἀπηλιώτου ὁδὸς βασιλική.
r.10   καὶ ἀπέχω παρὰ τοῦ Σωκράτου τὴν συνκεχωρημένην τιμὴν πᾶσαν ἐκ πλήρους διὰ χειρὸς ἐξ οἴκου καὶ βεβαιώσω τὴν πρᾶσιν πάσῃ βεβαιώσει
r.11   ἀπὸ μὲν δημοσίων ὀφειλημάτων πάντων καὶ ἐπιγραφῶν πασῶν καὶ παντὸς εἴδους τῶν ἐκ τῶν ἐπάνω χρόνων μέχρι τοῦ ἑπτακαιδεκάτου
r.12   ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ καὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ ἑπτακαιδεκάτου ἔτους Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ, ἀπὸ δὲ ἰδιωτικῶν καὶ πάσης ἐμποιήσεως ἐπὶ τὸν
r.13   ἅπαντα χρόνον. καὶ ἀναδώσω τῷ Σωκράτῃ τὰ σύμβολα καὶ τὰ εἴς με οἰκονομίας καθὼς πρόκιται. Σωκράτης Ζωίλου γέγονε εἴς με ἡ πρᾶσις
r.14   καθὼς πρόκειται. ἔτου[ς] ἑπτακαιδεκάτου Τιβερίου Καίσαρος Σεβαστοῦ Μεσωρὴ ἐπαγομένων ε ἀναγέγραπται διὰ Κρονίωνος τοῦ πρὸς τῷ γραφίῳ Τεβτύνεως καὶ Κερκεσούχων Ὄρους τῆς Πολέμονος μερίδος.

[TRANSLATION]
1     [the] Cronion from Socrates that which stands for the mentioned two arouras, silver deed of transfer
2     every principal and will guarantee both Cronion himself and those with him to Socrates and those with him according to the
3     transfer this with every guarantee from public debts all and inscriptions all and every kind of [obligation] from the above times until the present seventeenth year and of the present
4     [seventeenth] year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, and from private [debts] and every [encumbrance] for the entire time, and neither previously sold nor part nor mortgaged nor alienated in any way.
5     Whatever of the above shall be written contrary Cronion, if he should make an attempt of his concerning these matters
6     [or] claim or [assertion] or hindrance or malicious trick in any way void be and let him pay additionally to Socrates both the damages
7     and expenses doubled and penalty in silver drachmas one thousand and to the treasury the same. And nothing less under compulsion Cronion will give to Socrates the documents and the records on him. The agreement valid be everywhere.
8     Cronion son of Zoilos I acknowledge [I] have sold to my brother born of the same father and same mother Socrates the lands held by me near Phnebia below the Polemon division uncultivated vineyard land two arouras or as many as are in one seal, of which neighbors to the south formerly Sarapion but now Tryphon of Ptolemaeus
9     the gymnasiarch's vineyard, to the north water-channel through which are watered the said two arouras, to the west uncultivated vineyard land, to the east the royal road.
10    and I have received from Socrates the agreed price all in full by hand from home and I will guarantee the sale with every guarantee
11    from public debts all and inscriptions all and every kind of [obligation] from the above times until the seventeenth
12    year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus and of the seventeenth year of Tiberius Caesar Augustus, and from private [debts] and every [encumbrance] for the
13    entire time. And I will give to Socrates the documents and the records on me as aforesaid. Socrates son of Zoilos for me the sale
14    as aforesaid. Year seventeenth of Tiberius Caesar Augustus Mesore of the epagomenals 5, [it] has been recorded through Cronion the one at the office of Tebtunis and Kerkesuches Mountain of the Polemon division.