[META]
id:       UPZ 1.8
label:    UPZ 1.8
name:     Petition — Memphis
genre:    petitions
date:     161 BCE
language: Greek (Koiné)
found:    Memphis
held:     
shelf:    
content:  Petition from Memphis (161 BCE)
# hgv-keywords: Eingabe — Ptolemaios an den königlichen Freund und Strategen Dionysios — Überfall von Tempelangehörigen
tm:       3399
source:   https://papyri.info/ddbdp/upz;1;8
lat:      29.849491
lon:      31.255061

[GREEK]
r.1    Διονυσίωι τῶν φίλων καὶ στρατηγῶι
r.2    παρὰ Πτολεμαίου τοῦ Γλαυκίου Μακεδόνος
r.3    τῶν ὄντων ἐν κατοχῆι ἐν τῶι ἐν Μέμφει μεγάλωι
r.4    Σαραπιείωι ἔτος δωδέκατον. ἠδικημένος οὐ μετρίως καὶ τῶι ζῆν πλειονάκις κεκινδυνευκὼς ὑπὸ
r.5    τῶν ὑπογεγραμμένων ἐκ τοῦ ἱεροῦ καλλυντῶν ἐπὶ σὲ
r.6    τὴν καταφυγὴν ποιοῦμαι νομίζων μάλισθʼ οὕτως τεύξεσθαι τῶν δικαίων. τοῦ γὰρ κα ἔτους Φαῶφι η παραγενομένων ἐπὶ τὸ ἐν τῶι ἱερῶι Ἀσταρτιεῖον, ἐν ὧι
r.7    τυγχάνω ἐν τῆι κατοχῆι γεγονὼς τὰ προκείμενα
r.8    ἔτη, καί τινων μὲν ἐχόντων μετὰ χεῖρα λίθους,
r.9    ἑτέρων δὲ καὶ ῥάβδους καὶ ἐπιχειρούντων εἰσβιάσασθαι, ὅπως διὰ παρευρέσεως τό τε ἱερὸν σκύλωσιν
r.10   ἐμέ τε παρὰ τὸ Ἕλληνα εἶναι καθάπερ οἱ ἐξ ἐπιβουλῆς
r.11   ἐπιβαλλόμενοι τοῦ ζῆν ἀνέλωσι, καὶ τὴν μὲν
r.12   θύραν τοῦ ἱεροῦ προφθάσαντός μου καὶ κλείσαντος
r.13   μετὰ κραυγῆς τε διαστελλομένου μεθʼ ἡσυχίας ἀναλύειν, οὐδʼ ὣς ἀπεχώρουν, Δίφιλον δέ τινα τῶν
r.14   παρακατεχομένων ὑπὸ τοῦ Σαράπιος θεραπευτῶν
r.15   ἀγανακτοῦντα ἐφʼ οἷς διετελοῦντο ἐν τοιούτωι ἱερῶι
r.16   ἀνέωσάν τε καὶ οὐ μετρίως ἔσκυλαν ὑβρίζοντες
r.17   καὶ τύπτοντες, ὥστʼ ἂν τὴν παράνομον βίαν
r.18   ἅπασι εὔδηλον κατασταθῆναι. οἱ δʼ αὐτοὶ καὶ τοῦ ιθ ἔτους
r.19   Φαῶφι τὰ ὅμοια εἴς με διαπραξάμενοι ἐνέτυχόν σοι
r.20   παρʼ αὐτὸν τὸν καιρόν, ὑπὲρ ὧν παρὰ τὸ μὴ ἔχειν [με]
r.21   τὸν τὴν ἐντυχίαν ποιησόμενον συνβῆναι
r.22   ἀνεπιπλήκτων αὐτῶν ὄντων εἰς μείζονα καταφρόνησιν ἐλθεῖν. ἀξιῶ οὖν σε, ἐὰν φαίνηται,
r.23   συντάξαι καταστῆσαι αὐτοὺς ἐπὶ σέ, ὅπως περὶ
r.24   ἁπάντων τούτων τύχωσι τῆς προσηκούσης μισοπονηρίας. εὐτύχει.
r.25   Μῦς ἱματιοπώλης, Ψοσναῦς ἀσιλλοφόρος,
r.26   Ἰμούθης ἀρτοκόπος, Ἁρεμβάσνις σιτοκάπηλος,
r.27   Στοτοῆτις σακκοφόρος Ἁρχῆβις κλυστής, Πο … ος ταπίδυφος καὶ ἄλλοι μετὰ τούτων, ὧν τὰ ὀνόματα ἀγνοῶ.

[TRANSLATION]
1     To Dionysius, one of the friends and general,
2     from Ptolemy son of Glaucion, a Macedonian,
3     of those being in military possession in the in Memphis great
4     Serapieion, year twelfth. Having been wronged not moderately and with respect to life many times having been in danger from
5     the underwritten ones, from the sanctuary servants, to you
6     for refuge I make my appeal, thinking to obtain thus especially justice. For in the 24th year, Phaophi 8, having come to the in the sanctuary Astarteion, in which
7     I happen to have been in military possession for the preceding
8     years, and some indeed holding stones in hand,
9     and others both rods, and attempting to break in, so that through [a ruse] both the sanctuary they might plunder
10    and me, being a Greek, just as those through premeditation
11    coming against [me] of life might kill, and the
12    door of the sanctuary, having anticipated [them] and having locked
13    with shouting and [them] dispersing with quiet to depart, not even so did they withdraw; but a certain Diphilus of the
14    being held under Sarapis' authority as servants
15    being indignant at what they were continuing [to do] in such a sanctuary
16    they pushed [him] out and not moderately plundered, treating outrageously
17    and striking, so that the lawless violence
18    to all be made clear. And these same ones, [in] the 19th year,
19    Phaophi, the same things toward me having done, made a petition to you
20    at that very time, concerning which, because I don't have [me]
21    the one who would make the petition [to come] about,
22    they being without rebuke came to greater contempt. I ask then you, if it seems good,
23    order [to] bring [them] before you, so that concerning
24    all these things they may experience the deserved hatred-of-wrong-doing. Farewell.
25    Mys, seller of clothing; Posnaos, rod-bearer;
26    Imouth, baker; Harembasnis, grain-dealer;
27    Stotoetis, sack-bearer; Archebis, enema-giver; Po[...]os, hide-preparer, and others along with these, whose names I do not know.